4 A History of Rome to 565 A. D.
more than 125 miles. In striking contrast to the plains of the
Po, southern Italy is traversed throughout by the parallel ridges
of the Apennines, which give it an endless diversity of hill and
valley. The average height of these mountains, which form
a sort of vertebrate system for the peninsula ( Apennino dorso
Italia dividitur , Livy xxxvi, 15), is about 4,000 feet, and even
their highest peaks (9,500 feet) are below the line of perpetual [4]
snow. The Apennine chain is highest on its eastern side where
it approaches closely to the Adriatic, leaving only a narrow strip
of coast land, intersected by numerous short mountain torrents.
On the west the mountains are lower and recede further from
the sea, leaving the wide lowland areas of Etruria, Latium and
Campania. On this side, too, are rivers of considerable length,
navigable for small craft; the Volturnus and Liris, the Tiber and
the Arno, whose valleys link the coast with the highlands of the
interior.
The coast-line. In comparison with Greece, Italy presents a
striking regularity of coast-line. Throughout its length of over
2000 miles it has remarkably few deep bays or good harbors,
and these few are almost all on the southern and western shores.
Thus the character of the Mediterranean coast of Italy, with its
fertile lowlands, its rivers, its harbors, and its general southerly
aspect, rendered it more inviting and accessible to approach from
the sea than the eastern coast, and determined its leadership in
the cultural and material advancement of the peninsula.
Climate. The climate of Italy as a whole, like that of
other Mediterranean lands, is characterized by a high average
temperature, and an absence of extremes of heat or cold.
Nevertheless, it varies greatly in different localities, according
to their northern or southern situation, their elevation, and their
proximity to the sea. In the Po valley there is a close approach
to the continental climate of central Europe, with a marked
difference between summer and winter temperatures and clearly
marked transitional periods of spring and autumn. On the other THE GEOGRAPHY OF ITALY 5
hand, in the south of the peninsula the climate becomes more
tropical, with its periods of winter rain and summer drought, and
a rapid transition between the moist and the dry seasons.
Malaria. Both in antiquity and in modern times the disease
from which Italy has suffered most has been the dreaded malaria.
The explanation is to be found in the presence of extensive
marshy areas in the river valleys and along the coast. The
ravages of this disease have varied according as the progress
of civilization has brought about the cultivation and drainage of
the affected areas or its decline has wrought the undoing of this
beneficial work.
Forests. In striking contrast to their present baldness, the
slopes of the Apennines were once heavily wooded, and the
well-tilled fields of the Po valley were also covered with tall [5]
forests. Timber for houses and ships was to be had in abundance,
and as late as the time of Augustus Italy was held to be a
well-forested country.
Minerals. The mineral wealth of Italy has never been very
great at any time. In antiquity the most important deposits were
the iron ores of the island of Elba, and the copper mines of Etruria
and Liguria. For a time, the gold washings in the valleys of the
Graian Alps were worked with profit.
Agriculture. The true wealth of Italy lay in the richness of
her soil, which generously repaid the labor of agriculturist or
horticulturist. The lowland areas yielded large crops of grain of
all sorts—millet, maize, wheat, oats and barley —while legumes
were raised in abundance everywhere. Campania was especially
fertile and is reported to have yielded three successive crops
annually. The vine and the olive flourished, and their cultivation
eventually became even more profitable than the raising of grain.
The valleys and mountain sides afforded excellent pasturage
at all seasons, and the raising of cattle and sheep ranked
next in importance to agricultural pursuits among the country ’s
industries. 6 A History of Rome to 565 A. D.
The islands: Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica. The geographical
location of the three large islands, Sicily, Sardinia and Corsica,
links their history closely with that of the Italian peninsula. The
large triangle of Sicily (11,290 sq. mi.) is separated from the
southwest extremity of Italy by the narrow straits of Rhegium,
and lies like a stepping-stone between Europe and Africa. Its
situation, and the richness of its soil, which caused it to become
one of the granaries of Rome, made it of far greater historical
importance than the other two islands. Sardinia (9,400 sq. mi.)
and Corsica (3,376 sq. mi.), owing to their rugged, mountainous
character and their greater remoteness from the coast of Italy,
have been always, from both the economic and the cultural
standpoint, far behind the more favored Sicily.
The historical significance of Italy ’s configuration and
location. The configuration of the Italian peninsula, long,
narrow, and traversed by mountain ridges, hindered rather than
helped its political unification. Yet the Apennine chain, running
parallel to the length of the peninsula, offered no such serious
barriers to that unification as did the network of mountains and
the long inlets that intersect the peninsula of Greece. And when
once Italy had been welded into a single state by the power of [6]
Rome, its central position greatly facilitated the extension of the
Roman dominion over the whole Mediterranean basin.
The name Italia. The name Italy is the ancient Italia , derived
from the people known as the Itali, whose name had its origin
in the word vitulus (calf). It was applied by the Greeks as early
as the fifth century B. C. to the southwestern extremity of the
peninsula, adjacent to the island of Sicily. It rapidly acquired a
much wider significance, until, from the opening of the second
century, Italia in a geographical sense denoted the whole country
as far north as the Alps. Politically, as we shall see, the name for
a long time had a much more restricted significance.