[001]

Tempest and Sunshine

Chapter I

MR. WILMOT ARRIVES AT MR. MIDDLETON'S

It was the afternoon of a bright October day. The old town
clock had just tolled the hour of four, when the Lexington and
Frankfort daily stage was heard rattling over the stony pavement
in the small town of V——, Kentucky. In a few moments the
four panting steeds were reined up before the door of The Eagle,
the principal hotel in the place. "Mine host," a middle-aged,
pleasant-looking man, came hustling out to inspect the newcom-
ers, and calculate how many would do justice to his beefsteaks,
strong coffee, sweet potatoes and corn cakes, which were being
prepared in the kitchen by Aunt Esther.

This good dame divided her time between squeezing the
steaks, turning the corn cakes, kicking the dogs and administer-
ing various cuffs to sundry little black urchins, who were on the
lookout to snatch a bit of the "hoe cake" whenever they could


[002]

2

Tempest and Sunshine

elude the argus eyes of Aunt Esther. When the rattling of the
stage was heard, there ensued a general scrambling to ascertain
which would be first to see who had come. At length, by a series
of somersaults, helped on by Aunt Esther's brawny hand, the
kitchen was cleared and Aunt Esther was "monarch of all she
surveyed."

The passengers this afternoon were few and far between, for
there was but one inside and one on the box with the driver.
The one inside alighted and ordered his baggage to be carried
into the hotel. The stranger was a young man, apparently about
twenty-five years of age. He was tall, well-proportioned and
every way prepossessing in his appearance. At least the set of
idlers in the barroom thought so, for the moment he entered they
all directed their eyes and tobacco juice toward him!

By the time he had uttered a dozen words, they had come to
the conclusion that he was a stranger in the place and was from
the East. One of the men, a Mr. Edson, was, to use his own
words, "mighty skeary of Northern folks," and as soon as he
became convinced that the stranger was from that way, he got up,
thinking to himself, "Some confounded Abolitionist, I'll warrant.
The sooner I go home and get my gang together, the better 'twill
be." But on second thought he concluded that "his gang" was
safe, for the present at least; so he'd just sit down and hear what
his neighbor, Mr. Woodburn, was saying to the newcomer.

The Kentuckians are as famous as the Yankees for inquisitive-
ness, but if they inquire into your history, they are equally ready
to give theirs to you, and you cannot feel as much annoyed by
the kind, confiding manner with which a Kentuckian will draw
you out, as by the cool, quizzing way with which a Yankee will
"guess" out your affairs.

On the present occasion, Mr. Woodburn had conjectured the
young man's business, and was anxious to know who he was,
and, if possible, to render him assistance.
It took but a short
time for the stranger to tell that he was from the East, from New


Chapter I

3

York; that his name was Wilmot, and that he was in quest of
a school; and in as short a time Mr. Woodburn had welcomed
young Wilmot to Kentucky, but expressed his regrets that he
did not come sooner, for all the schools were engaged. "But,"
added he, "you had better remain around here awhile and get
acquainted, and then there will be no doubt of your eventually
getting a situation. Meantime, as you are a stranger here, you are
welcome to make my house your home."

Such kindness from an entire stranger was unlooked for by
Wilmot. He knew not what to make of it; it was so different from
the cold, money-making men of the North. He tried to stammer
out his thanks, when Mr. Edson interrupted him by nudging Mr.
Woodburn and saying: "Don't you mind old Middleton. He's
been tarin' round after a Yankee teacher these six weeks. I reckon
this chap'll suit."

Mr. Woodburn hesitated. He did not like to send Mr. Wilmot
to such a place as Mr. Middleton's, for though Mr. Middleton was
a very kind man, he was very rough and uncouth in his manner
and thought his money much better applied when at interest than [003]
when employed to make his house and family more comfortable.
At length Mr. Woodburn replied: "True, I did not think of Mr.
Middleton, but I hardly like to send a stranger there. However,
Mr. Wilmot, you must not judge all Kentuckians by him, for
though he is very hospitable to strangers, he is extremely rough."
Mr. Wilmot thanked them for their information and said he

thought he would go to Mr. Middleton's that night.

"Lord knows how you'll get there," said Mr. Edson.
"Why, is it far?" asked Wilmot.
"Not very far," said Mr. Edson, "little better than four miles,
but a mighty mean road at any time and a heap worse since the
rains. For a spell you can get on right smart, but then, again,
you'll go in co-slush!"

Mr. Wilmot smiled, but said he "thought he would try the road

if Mr. Edson would give him the direction."


4

Tempest and Sunshine

Then followed a host of directions, of which the most promi-
nent to Wilmot were, that "about two miles from the house is
an old hemp factory, full of niggers, singing like all fury; then
comes a piece of woods, in the middle of which is a gate on
the left hand; open that gate and follow the road straight till
you come to the mightiest, mean-looking house you ever seen, I
reckon; one chimbley tumbled down, and t'other trying to. That
is Middleton's."

Here Mr. Woodburn said, "That as the road was so bad, and
it was getting late, Mr. Wilmot had better stay at his house that
night and the next day they would send him to Middleton's."

Before Mr. Wilmot had time to reply, Mr. Edson called
out, "Halloo! Just in time, Wilmot!" Then rushing to the door
he screamed, "Ho! Jim Crow, you jackanapes, what you ridin'
Prince full jump down the pike for? Say, you scapegrace, come
up here!"

Mr. Wilmot looked from the window and saw a fine looking
black boy of about sixteen years of age riding a beautiful horse
at full speed through the street. He readily divined that the boy
was the property of Mr. Edson, and as he had brought from
home a little abolitionism safely packed away, he expected to
see a few cuffs dealt out to the young African. But when the
young hopeful, at the command of his master, wheeled his horse
up to the door, gave a flourish with his rimless old hat and a
loud whistle with his pouting lips, Mr. Wilmot observed that his
master gave the bystanders a knowing wink, as much as to say,
"Isn't he smart?" Then turning to the boy he said, "How now,
you Jim, what are you here for, riding Prince to death?"

"I begs marster's pardon berry much," said the negro, "but you
see how I done toted all the taters you told me, and missis she
'vise me to ride Prince a leetle, 'case he's gettin' oneasy like when
Miss Carline rides him."

"Likely story," said Mr. Edson; "but for once you are in the

way when I want you. You know where Mr. Middleton lives?"

[004]


Chapter I

5

"Yes, marster, reckon I does."
"Well, this young man wants to go there. Now jump down

quick and help him on. Do you hear?"

"Yes, marster," said the negro, and in a moment he was on the

ground, holding the stirrup for Mr. Wilmot to mount.

Wilmot hesitated for two causes. The first was, he was not a
good horseman and did not like to attempt mounting the spirited
animal before so many pairs of eyes. He looked wistfully at the
horse block, but did not dare propose having the horse led up to
it. The second reason was he did not know whether to accept or
decline the kindness of Mr. Edson; but that man reassured him
by saying:

"Come! What are you waiting for? Jump up. I'd a heap rather

Jim would go with you than ride Prince to death."

Here Mr. Woodburn spoke. He knew that New York people
were, comparatively speaking, inferior riders, and he conjectured
why Mr. Wilmot hesitated; so he said:

"Here, Jim, lead the horse up to the block for the gentleman";
then turning to the bystanders, said, as if apologizing for Wilmot:
"You know it is so thickly settled in New York that they do not
ride as much as we do, and probably the young man has always
been at school."

This was satisfactory to the white portion of the audience, but
not to the group of blacks, who were assembled at the corner
of the house. They thought it a shame not to be a good rider
and when they saw the awkward manner in which Mr. Wilmot
finally mounted the horse and the ludicrous face of Jim Crow as
he sprang up behind him, they were, as they afterward told Aunt
Esther, "dreffully tickled and would have larfed, sartin, if they
hadn't knowed marster would have slapped their jaws."

"And sarved you right," was the rejoinder of Aunt Esther.
But to return to Mr. Edson. As soon as Mr. Wilmot, Jim and
Prince had disappeared, he felt a return of his fears concerning
the "confounded Abolitionist." Thought he, "What a fool I was


[005]

6

Tempest and Sunshine

to let Prince and Jim Crow, too, go off with that
ar' chap!
Thar's Prince, worth a hundred and fifty, and Jim, at the least
calculation, 'll fetch eight hundred. Well, anyway, they can't get
far on that dirt road, so if Jim isn't home by nine, I'll go after 'em,
that's so." Having settled the matter thus satisfactorily in his own
mind, he called for his horse and started for home.

Meantime Mr. Wilmot was slowly wending his way toward
Mr. Middleton's. It took but a short time for him to ascertain
that the road was fully equal to the description given of it by Mr.
Edson. At times he could scarcely keep his head, and he felt
conscious, too, that the black machine behind him was inwardly
convulsed with laughter at his awkward attempts to guide the
horse in the best part of the road. At length he ventured a remark:

"Jim, is this animal ugly?"
"Ugly! Lor' bless you, marster, is you blind? As handsome a

creetur as thar is in the country!"

Mr. Wilmot understood that he had used the word ugly in its

wrong sense, so he said:

"I do not mean to ask if the horse is ill-looking, but is he

skittish?"

"If marster means by that will he throw him off, I don't think he
will as long as I'm on him, but sometimes he is a leetle contrary
like. Reckon marster ain't much used to ridin'."

By this time they had reached the gate spoken of by Mr.
Edson. To Mr. Wilmot's great surprise the horse walked tip to it
and tried to open it with his mouth! Mr. Wilmot was so much
amused that he would not suffer Jim to get down and open the
gate, as he wished to see if the horse could do it.

"Oh, yes, marster, he'll do it easy," said the negro; and sure
enough, in a moment the well-trained animal lifted the latch and
pushed open the gate! But it was a rickety old thing, and before
Prince had got fairly through it tumbled down, hitting his heels
and causing him to jump sideways, so as to leave Mr. Wilmot
riding the gate and Jim Crow in quiet possession of the saddle!


[006]

Chapter I

7

With a great effort Jim forced down his desire to scream and
merely showed twenty-eight very large, white teeth.

Springing from the horse he offered to assist Mr. Wilmot to
mount again, but he had no inclination to do so. He preferred
walking the rest of the way, he said, and as he could now easily
find the house, Jim could return home. This was not what Jim
wanted. He had anticipated a nice time in relating his adventures
to Mr. Middleton's negroes, but as Mr. Wilmot slipped a quarter
into his hand, he felt consoled for the loss of his "yarn"; so
mounting Prince again, he gave his old palm leaf three flourishes
round his head, and with a loud whoop, started the horse with
a tremendous speed down the road and was soon out of sight,
leaving Mr. Wilmot to find his way alone through the wood.
This he found no difficulty in doing, for he soon came in sight of
a house, which he readily took for Mr. Middleton's.

It was a large, old-fashioned stone building, with one chimney
fallen down, as Mr. Edson had said, and its companion looked
likely to follow suit at the first high wind. The windows of the
upper story were two-thirds of them destitute of glass, but its
place was supplied by shingles, which kept the cold out if they
did not let the light in. Scattered about the yard, which was very
large, were corn cribs, hay racks, pig troughs, carts, wagons,
old plows, horses, mules, cows, hens, chickens, turkeys, geese,
negroes, and dogs, the latter of which rushed ferociously at Mr.
Wilmot, who was about to beat a retreat from so uninviting
quarters, when one of the negroes called out, "Ho, marster, don't
be feared, 'case I'll hold Tiger." So Wilmot advanced with some
misgivings toward the negro and dog.

He asked the negro if his master were at home.
"No, sar, marster's done gone away, but Miss Nancy, she's at
home. Jist walk right in thar, whar you see the pile of saddles in
the entry."

Accordingly, Mr. Wilmot "walked in where the pile of sad-
dles were," and knocked at a side door. It was opened by a very


[007]

8

Tempest and Sunshine

handsome young girl, who politely asked the stranger to enter.
He did so and found within a mild-looking, middle-aged lady,
whose dark eyes and hair showed her at once to be the mother of
the young lady who had opened the door for him.

Mrs. Middleton, for she it was, arose, and offering her hand
to the stranger, asked him to be seated in the large stuffed chair
which stood before the cheerful blazing fire. In a few moments
he had introduced himself, told his business and inquired for Mr.
Middleton.

"My husband is absent," said Mrs. Middleton, "but he will be
at home tonight and we shall be glad to have you remain with us
till tomorrow at least, and as much longer as you like, for I think
Mr. Middleton will be glad to assist you in getting a school."

Mr. Wilmot accepted the invitation and then looked round the
room to see if the interior of the house corresponded with the
exterior, It did not, for the room, though large, was very comfort-
able. The floor was covered with a bright-colored home-made
carpet. In one corner stood a bed, the counterpane of which was
as white as snow, and the curtains of the windows were of the
same hue. In another corner was a small bookcase, well filled
with books and on a stand near a window were several house
plants.

He concluded that the books and the plants were the property
of the young lady, whom Mrs. Middleton introduced to him as
her eldest daughter Julia. She was an intelligent-looking girl,
and Mr. Wilmot instantly felt interested in her, but when he
attempted to converse with her, she stole quietly out of the room,
leaving her mother to entertain the visitor.

At last supper was brought in by old Aunt Judy, who courtesied
so low to the "young marster," that she upset the coffee pot, the
contents of which fell upon a spaniel, which lay before the fire.
The outcries of the dog brought Miss Julia from the kitchen, and
this time she was accompanied by her younger sister, Fanny, who
together with Julia and Aunt Judy, lamented over the wounded


Chapter I

animal.

9

"I didn't go to do it, sartin, Miss July," said Aunt Judy, "Lor'

knows I didn't."

"Who said you did, you black thing, you?" said Julia, who in
her grief for her favorite, and her anger at Aunt Judy, forgot the
stranger, and her bashfulness, too. "You were careless, I know
you were," she continued, "or you never could have tipped the
coffee over in this manner."

"Never mind, sister," said Fanny, "never mind; of course,
Aunt Judy didn't mean to do it, for she likes Dido as well as we
do."

"Lor' bless Miss Fanny's sweet face, that I do like Dido," said

Aunt Judy.

"Yes, that you do," repeated Julia mockingly, "just as though

you could like anything."

Here Mrs. Middleton interposed and ordered Julia and Fanny
to take their seats at the table, while Judy cleared away all traces
of the disaster. Julia complied with an ill-grace, muttering some-
thing about "the hateful negroes," while Fanny obeyed readily,
and laughingly made some remark to Mr. Wilmot about their
making so much ado over a dog, "but," said she, "we are silly
girls, and of course do silly things. Probably we shall do better
when we get old like you—no, like mother, I mean."

Here she stopped, blushing deeply at having called Mr. Wilmot
old, when in fact she thought him quite young, and very hand-
some—in short, "just the thing." She thought to herself, "There,
I've done it now! Julia and I have both introduced ourselves to
him in a pretty light, but it's just like me—however, I'll not say
another word tonight!"

The little incident of the coffee pot gave Mr. Wilmot some-
thing of an insight into the character and disposition of the two
girls. And surely nothing could have been more unlike than
their personal appearance, as they sat side by side at the supper
table. Julia was about seventeen years of age and was called

[008]


10

Tempest and Sunshine

very handsome, for there was something peculiarly fascinating
in the ever-varying expression of her large black eyes. She was
a brunette, but there was on her cheek so rich and changeable a
color that one forgot in looking at her, whether she were dark or
light. Her disposition was something like her complexion—dark
and variable. Her father was a native of South Carolina, and
from him she inherited a quick, passionate temper. At times she
was as gentle as a lamb, but when anything occurred to trouble
her, all her Southern blood boiled up, and she was as Fanny said,
"always ready to fire up at a moment's warning." Mr. Middleton
called her "Tempest," while to Fanny he gave the pet name of
"Sunshine," and truly, compared with her sister, Fanny's presence
in the house was like a ray of sunshine.

She was two years younger than Julia and entirely different
from her, both in looks and disposition. Her face was very pale
and her bright golden hair fell in soft curls around her neck and
shoulders, giving her something the appearance of a fairy. Her
eyes were very large and very dark blue, and ever mirrored forth
the feelings of her soul.

By the servants Julia was feared and dreaded; but Fanny was
a favorite with all. Not a man, woman or child on the plantation
but was ready to do anything for "darling Miss Fanny." And
they thought, too, every one must love her as well as they did,
for they said "she showed by her face that she was an angel."
This was the opinion of the blacks, and it was also the partially
formed opinion of Mr. Wilmot before he finished his supper; and
yet he could not help thinking there was something wondrously
attractive in the glance of Julia's large, dark eyes.

After supper he tried to engage the girls in conversation in
order to ascertain which had the better mind. He found Fanny
most ready to converse. She had forgotten her resolution not
to talk, and before the evening was half spent seemed perfectly
well acquainted with him. She had discovered that his name was
Richard, that he had a sister Kate, who called him Dick, that

[009]


Chapter I

11

he was as yet possessor of his own heart, but was in danger of
losing it! The compliment Fanny very generously gave to her
sister Julia, because she observed that Mr. Wilmot's eyes were
often directed toward the corner where the dark beauty sat, silent
and immovable.

Julia had taken but little part in the conversation and Mr.
Wilmot's efforts to "draw her out" had proved ineffectual. She
felt piqued that Fanny should engross so much attention and
resolved on revenge; so she determined to show Mr. Wilmot that
she could talk but not upon such silly subjects as pleased Fanny.
Accordingly, when books were mentioned, she seemed suddenly
aroused into life. She was really very intelligent and a very good
scholar. She had a great taste for reading, and what books she
could not prevail on her father to buy, she would borrow, so she
had a tolerably good knowledge of all the standard works. Mr.
Wilmot was surprised and pleased to find her so well informed
and in the spirited conversation which followed poor Fanny was
cast entirely into the background.

Fanny, however, attributed it to her sister's superior knowl-
edge of Latin, and inwardly "thanked her stars" that she knew
nothing of that language further than the verb Amo, to love. The
practical part of that verb she understood, even if she did not its
conjugation. She sat quietly listening to Mr. Wilmot and her
sister, but her cogitations were far different from what Julia's had
been.

Fanny was building castles—in all of which Mr. Wilmot and
Julia were the hero and heroine. She gazed admiringly at her
sister, whose face grew handsomer each moment as she became
more animated, and she thought, "What a nice-looking couple
Julia and Mr. Wilmot would make! And they would be so happy,
too—that is if sister didn't get angry, and I am sure she wouldn't
with Mr. Wilmot. Then they would have a nicer house than this
old shell, and perhaps they would let me live with them!"

Here her reverie was interrupted by Mr. Wilmot, who asked

