Part I.
The Parable.
Section I.
The Parable.
In an old book I discovered an extraordinary narrative entitled
Parabola.Itakeitasthestartingpointofmyobservationsbecause
it affords a welcome guide. In the endeavor to understand the
parable and get a psychological insight into it, we are led on to
journey through these very realms of fancy, into which I should
like to conduct the reader. At the end of our journey we shall
have acquired, with the understanding of the first example, the
knowledge of certain psychical laws.
I shall, then, without further prelude introduce the example,
and purposely avoid at the outset mentioning the title of the old
booksothatthereadermaybeinapositiontoallowthenarrative
to affect him without any preconceived ideas. Explanatory
interpolations in the text, which come from me, I distinguish
with square brackets.
[1]. As once I strolled in a fair forest, young and green, and
contemplated the painfulness of this life, and lamented how 6 Hidden Symbolism of Alchemy and the Occult Arts
through the dire fall of our first parents we inherited such [002]
miseryanddistress,Ichanced,whilethinkingthesethoughts,
to depart from the usual path, and found myself, I know not
how, on a narrow foot path that was rough, untrodden and
impassable, and overgrown with so much underbrush and
bushesthatitwaseasytoseeitwasverylittleused.Therefore
I was dismayed and would gladly have gone back, but it was
not in my power to do so, since a strong wind so powerfully
blew me on, that I could rather take ten steps in advance than
one backward.
[2]. Therefore I had to go on and not mind the rough
walking.
[3]. After I had advanced a good while I came finally to
a lovely meadow hedged about with a round circle of fruit
bearing trees, and called by the dwellers Pratum felicitatis
[the meadow of felicity], I was in the midst of a company of
old men with beards as gray as ice, except for one who was
quiteayoungmanwithapointedblackbeard.Alsotherewas
among them one whose name was well known to me, but his
visage I could not yet see, who was still younger, and they
debatedonallkindsofsubjects,particularlyaboutagreatand
lofty mystery, hidden in Nature, which God kept concealed
from the great world, and revealed to only a few who loved
him.
[4]. I listened long and their discourse pleased me well,
only some would break forth from restraint, not touching
uponthematterorwork,butwhattouchedupontheparables,
similitudes and other parerga, in which they followed the
poetic fancies of Aristotle, Pliny and others which the one
had copied from the other. So I could contain myself no
longerandmixedinmyownmustard,[putinmyownword],
refuted such trivial things from experience, and the majority
sidedwithme,examinedmeintheirfacultyandmadeitquite
hot for me. However the foundation of my knowledge was
so good, that I passed with all honors, whereupon they all [003]
wereamazed,unanimouslyincludedandadmittedmeintheir Section I. The Parable. 7
collegium, of which I was heartily glad.
[5]. But they said I could not be a real colleague till I
learnedtoknowtheirlion,andbecamethoroughlyacquainted
with his powers and abilities. For that purpose I should use
diligencesoastosubduehim.Iwasquiteconfidentinmyself
and promised them I would do my best. For their company
pleased me so well that I would not have parted from them
for a great deal.
[6]. They led me to the lion and described him very
carefully, but what I should undertake with him none could
tell me. Some of them indeed hinted, but very darkly, so that
the(DerTausende)Thousandthonecouldnothaveunderstood
him. But when I should first succeed in subduing him and
shouldhaveassuredmyselfagainsthissharpclaws,andkeen
teeth, then they would conceal nothing from me. Now the
lion was very old, ferocious and large, his yellow hair hung
overhisneck,heappearedquiteunconquerable,sothatIwas
almost afraid of my temerity and would gladly have turned
back if my promise and also the circumstance that the elders
stoodaboutmeandwerewaitingtoseewhatIwoulddo,had
allowed me to give up. In great confidence I approached the
lion in his den and began to caress him, but he looked at me
so fiercely with his brightly shining eyes that I could hardly
restrain my tears. Just then I remembered that I had learned
from one of the elders, while we were going to the lion's
den, that very many people had undertaken to overcome the
lion and very few could accomplish it. I was unwilling to be
disgraced, and I recalled several grips that I had learned with
great diligence in athletics, besides which I was well versed
in natural magic [magia] so I gave up the caresses and seized
the lion so dextrously, artfully and subtlely, that before he
was well aware of it I forced the blood out of his body, yea, [004]
even out of his heart. It was beautifully red but very choleric.
I dissected him further and found, a fact which caused me
much wonder, that his bones were white as snow and there
was much more bone than there was blood. 8 Hidden Symbolism of Alchemy and the Occult Arts
[7]. Now when my dear elders, who stood above around
the den and looked at me, were aware of it, they disputed
earnestlywitheachother,forsomuchIcouldinferfromtheir
motions but what they said I could not hear since I was deep
down in the den. Yet as they came close in dispute I heard
that one said, “He must bring him to life again, else he can
not be our colleague. ”I was unwilling to undertake further
difficulties,andbetookmyselfoutofthedentoagreatplace,
andcame,Iknownothow,onaveryhighwall,whoseheight
rose over 100 ells towards the clouds, but on top was not one
foot wide. And there went up from the beginning, where I
ascended, to the end an iron hand rail right along the center
of the wall, with many leaded supports. On this wall I came,
I say, and meseems there went on the right side of the railing
a man several paces before me.
[8].ButasIfollowedhimawhileIsawanotherfollowing
me on the other side, yet it was doubtful whether man or
woman, that called to me and said that it was better walking
on his side than where I went, as I readily believed, because
therailingthatstoodnearthemiddlemadethepathsonarrow
that the going at such a height was very bad. Then I saw also
some that wished to go on that path, fall: down below behind
me,thereforeIswungundertherailing;holdingtightwithmy
hands and went forward on the other [left] side, till I finally
came to a place on the wall which was very precipitous and
dangerous to descend. Then first I repented that I had not
stayedontheother[right]sideandIcouldnotgoundertothe
other side as it was also impossible to turn round and get on
the other path. So I risked it, trusted to my good feet, held [005]
myself tight and came down without harm, and as I walked
a little further, looked and knew of no other danger, but also
knew not what had become of wall and railing.
[9]. After I came down, there stood in that place a
beautiful rose bush, on which beautiful red and white roses
were growing, the red more numerous, however, than the
white. I broke off some roses from the bush and put them Section I. The Parable. 9
on my hat. But there seemed to be in the same place a wall,
surrounding a great garden. In the garden were lads, and
theirlasseswhowouldgladlybeinthegarden,butwouldnot
wander widely, or take the trouble to come to the gates. So
I pitied them. I went further along the path by which I had
come, still on the level, and went so fast that I soon came to
some houses, where I supposed I should find the gardener's
house. But I found there many people, each having his own
room. They were slow. Two together they worked diligently,
yet each had his own work. [The meaning may be either
that working alone they were slow, but in twos they worked
diligently;ortwoofthemworkedtogetherandwerediligent.
Both amount to the same thing as we shall later realize.] But
whattheydid,itseems,Ihadmyselfdonebeforeandalltheir
work was familiar to me. Especially, thought I, see, if so
many other people do so much dirty and sloppy work, that is
only an appearance according to each one's conceit, but has
no reason in Nature, so it may also be pardoned in you. I
wished, therefore, because I knew such tricks vanished like
smoke,toremainherenolongerinvainandproceededonmy
former way.
[10].AfterIhadarrivedatthegateofthegarden,someon
one side looked sourly at me, so that I was afraid they might
hinder me in my project; but others said, “See, he will into
the garden, and we have done garden service here so long, [006]
andhavenevergottenin;wewilllaughhimdownifhefails. ”
But I did not regard all that, as I knew the conditions of this
gardenbetterthanthey,evenifIhadneverbeeninit,butwent
righttoagatethatwastightshutsothatonecouldneithersee
norfindakeyhole.Inoticed,however,thatalittleroundhole
thatwithordinaryeyescouldnotbeseen,wasinthedoor,and
thoughtimmediately,thatmustbethewaythedoorisopened,
was ready with my specially prepared Diederich, unlocked
and went in. When I was inside the door, I found several
otherbolteddoors,whichIyetopenedwithouttrouble.Here,
however, was a passage way, just as if it was in a well built 10 Hidden Symbolism of Alchemy and the Occult Arts
house,somesixfeetwideandtwentylong,witharoofabove.
And though the other doors were still locked, I could easily
see through them into the garden as the first door was open.
[11].IwanderedintothegardeninGod'sname,andfound
in the midst of it a small garden, that was square and six
roodslong,hedgedinwithrosethorns,andtherosesbloomed
beautifully. But as it was raining gently, and the sun shone in
it,itcausedaverylovelyrainbow.WhenIhadpassedbeyond
thelittlegardenandwouldgototheplacewhereIwastohelp
the maids, behold I was aware that instead of the walls a low
hurdle stood there, and there went along by the rose garden
the most beautiful maiden arrayed in white satin, with the
most stately youth, who was in scarlet each giving arm to the
other,andcarryingintheirhandsmanyfragrantroses.Ispoke
to them and asked them how they had come over the hurdle.
“This, my beloved bridegroom, ”said she, “has helped me
over, and we are going now out of this beautiful garden into
ourapartmenttoenjoythepleasuresoflove. ”“Iamglad, ”said
I,“that without any further trouble on my part your desires
aresatisfied;yetseehowIhavehurried,andhaverunsolong
a way in so short a time to serve you. ”After that I came into [007]
agreatmillbuiltinsideofstones,inwhichwerenoflourbins
orotherthingsthatpertainedtogrindingbutonesawthrough
the walls several water wheels going in water. I asked why
it had equipment for grinding. An old miller answered that
the mill was shut down on the other side. Just then I also
sawamiller'sboygoinfromthesluiceplank[Schutzensteg],
and I followed after him. When I had come over the plank
[Steg], which had the water wheels on the left, I stood still
andwasamazedatwhatIsawthere.Forthewheelswerenow
higherthantheplank,thewatercoalblack,butitsdropswere
yet white, and the sluice planks were not over three fingers
wide. Still I ventured back and held onto the sticks that were
over the sluice planks and so came safely and dry over the
water.ThenIaskedtheoldmillerhowmanywaterwheelshe
had.“Ten,”answered he. The adventure stuck in my mind. Section I. The Parable. 11
I should have gladly known what the meaning was. But as I
noticedthatthemillerwouldnotleaveIwentaway,andthere
wasinfrontofthemillaloftypavedhill,onwhichweresome
of the previously mentioned elders who walked in the sun,
which then shone very warm, and they had a letter from the
wholefacultywrittentothem,onwhichtheywereconsulting.
[In our modern mode of expression, the elders had directed
a letter to the sun, and so I find the passage in an English
version of the parable. This generally bungling translation is
nevertheless not in the least authoritative. And although an
acceptable meaning is derived from it, if one regards the sun
asthejustmentioned “prince,”yetIbelieveafreertranslation
should be given ... the elders walked in the warm sunshine;
theyconsultedaboutaletterwrittentothembythefaculty.]I
soonnoticedwhatthecontentsmustbe,andthatitconcerned
me. I went therefore to them and said, “Gentlemen, does it
concern me? ” “Yes,”said they, “you must keep in marriage [008]
thewomanthatyouhaverecentlytakenorwemustnotifyour
prince.”I said,“that is no trouble as I was born at the same
time as she and brought up as a child with her, and as I have
taken her once I will keep her forever, and death itself shall
notpartus,forIhaveanardentaffectionforher. ”“Whathave
we then to complain of? ”replied they. “The bride is content,
andwehaveyourwill;youmustcopulate. ”“Contented, ”said
I.“Well,”said one, “the lion will then regain his life and
become more powerful and mighty than before. ”
[12]. Then occurred to me my previous trouble and labor
and I thought to myself that for particular reasons it must not
concern me but some other that is well known to me; then
I saw our bridegroom and his bride go by in their previous
attire,readyandpreparedforcopulation,whichgavemegreat
joy, for I was in great distress lest the thing might concern
me.
[13]. When, then, as mentioned, our bridegroom in his
brilliant scarlet clothes with his dearest bride, whose white
satin coat shot forth bright rays, came to the proper marriage 12 Hidden Symbolism of Alchemy and the Occult Arts
age, they joined the two so quickly that I wondered not a
littlethatthismaid,thatwassupposedtobethemotherofthe
bridegroom, was still so young that she appeared to be just
born.
[14]. Now I do not know what sin these two must have
committed except that although they were brother and sister,
they were in such wise bound by ties of love, that they could
not be separated, and so, as it were, wished to be punished
for incest. These two were, instead of a bride bed and
magnificentmarriage,condemnedandshutupinanenduring
and everlasting prison, which, because of their high birth and
goodly state, and also so that in future they should not be
guilty in secret, but all their conduct should be known to the
guard placed over them and in his sight, was made quite [009]
transparent, bright and clear like a crystal, and round like a
sphere of heaven, and there they were with continual tears
andtruecontritiontoatoneandmakereparationfortheirpast
misdeeds. [Instead of to a bride bed the two were brought to
a prison, so that their actions could be watched. The prison
was transparent; it was a bright crystal clear chamber, like a
sphere of heaven, corresponding to the high position of the
two persons.] Previously, however, all their rare clothing and
finery that they had put on for ornament was taken away,
so that in such a chamber they must be quite naked and
merely dwell with each other. [It is not directly understood
by these words that a cohabitation in modern sense (coition)
is meant. According to modern language the passage must
be rendered, “had to dwell near each other naked and bare. ”
One is reminded, moreover, of the nuptial customs that are
observedparticularlyinthemarriageofpersonsofhighbirth.
In any case and, in spite of my reservation, what occurs is
conducive or designed to lead to the sexual union.] Besides
theygavethemnoonethathadtogointothechambertowait
on them, but after they put in all the necessities in the way of
meatanddrink,whichwerecreatedfromtheaforementioned
water, the door of the chamber was fast bolted and locked, Section I. The Parable. 13
the faculty seal impressed on it and I was enjoined that I
shouldguardthemhere,andspendthewinterbeforethedoor;
the chamber should be duly warmed so that they be neither
too hot nor too cold, and they could neither come out nor
escape. But should they, on account of any hope of breaking
this mandate, escape, I would thereupon be justly subjected
to heavy punishment. I was not pleased by the thing, my fear
and solicitude made me faint hearted, for I communed with
myself that it was no small thing that had befallen me, as I
knew also that the college of wisdom was accustomed not to
lie but to put into action what it said. Yet because I could [010]
not change it, beside which this locked chamber stood in the
centerofastrongtowerandsurroundedwithstrongbulwarks
andhighwalls,inwhichonecouldwithasmallbutcontinuous
fire warm the whole chamber, I undertook this office, and
began in God's name to warm the chamber, and protect the
imprisoned pair from the cold. But what happened? As soon
as they perceived the slightest warmth they embraced each
othersotenderlythatthelikewillnotsoonbeseen,andstayed
sohotthattheyoungbridegroom'sheartinhisbodydissolved
for ardent love, also his whole body almost melted in his
beloved's arms and fell apart. When she who loved him no
lessthanhedidher,sawthis,sheweptoverhimpassionately
and,asitwereburiedhimwithhertearssothatonecouldnot
see, for her gushing tears that overflowed everything, where
hewent.Herweepingandsorrowinghaddrivenhertothisin
ashorttime,andshewouldnotfordeepanguishofheartlive
longer, but voluntarily gave herself to death. Ah woe is me.
In what pain and need and trouble was I that my two charges
had quite disappeared in water, and death alone was left for
me. My certain destruction stood before my eyes, and what
wasthegreatesthardshiptome,Ifearedthethreatenedshame
and disgrace that would happen to me, more than the injury
that would overtake me.
[15]. As I now passed several days in such solitude and
pondered over the question how I could remedy my affairs, 14 Hidden Symbolism of Alchemy and the Occult Arts
it occurred to me how Medea had revived the dead body of
Aeson, and I thought to myself, “If Medea could do such
a thing, why should such a thing fail me? ”I began at once
to bethink me how I would do it, found however no better
way than that I should persist with continual warmth until
the waters disappeared, and I might see again the corpses of
our lovers. As I hoped to come off without danger and with
great advantage and praise I went on with my warmth that I [011]
had begun and continued it forty whole days, as I was aware
that the water kept on diminishing the longer I kept it up,
and the corpses that were yet as black as coal, began again
to be visible. And truly this would have occurred before if
the chamber had not been all too securely locked and bolted.
Which I yet did not avail to open. For I noted particularly
that the water that rose and hastened to the clouds, collected
above in the chamber and fell down like rain, so that nothing
could come of it, until our bridegroom with his dearest bride,
dead and rotten, and therefore hideously stinking, lay before
my eyes.
All the while the sunshine in the moist weather caused
an exceedingly beautiful rainbow to be seen, in the chamber,
withsurprisinglybeautifulcolors,whichoverjoyednotalittle
my overpowering affliction. Much more was I delighted that
I saw my two lovers lying before me again. But as no joy is
so great but is mixed with much sadness, so I was troubled
in my joy thinking that my charges lay still dead before me,
and one could trace no life in them. But because I knew that
theirchamberwasmadeofsuchpureandthickmaterial,also
sotight-lockedthattheirsoulandspiritcouldnotgetout,but
was still closely guarded within, I continued with my steady
warmth day and night, to perform my delegated office, quite
impressed with the fact that the two would not return to their
bodies, as long as the moisture continued. For in the moist
state nature keeps itself the same, as I then also found in
fact and in truth. For I was aware upon careful examination
that from the earth at evening through the power of the sun, Section I. The Parable. 15
many vapors arose and drew themselves up just as the sun
draws water. They were condensed in the night in a lovely
and very fruitful dew, which very early in the morning fell
and moistened the earth and washed our dead corpses, so
that from day to day, the longer such bathing and washing
continued, the more beautiful and whiter they became. But [012]
thefairerandwhitertheybecame,themoretheylostmoisture,
till finally the air being bright and beautiful, and all the mist
and moist weather, having passed, the spirit and soul of the
bride could hold itself no longer in the bright air, but went
back into the clarified and still more transfigured body of the
queen, who soon experienced it [i.e. her soul and spirit] and
atoncelivedagain.This,then,asIcouldeasilyobserve,nota
little pleased me, especially as I saw her arise in surpassingly
costlygarmentswhoselikewasneverseenonearth,andwith
apreciouscrowndeckedwithbrightdiamonds;andalsoheard
her speak. “Hear ye children of men and perceive ye that are
bornofwomen,thatthemosthighpowercansetupkingsand
can remove kings. He makes rich and poor, according to his
will. He kills and makes again to live. ”
[16].Seeinmeatrueandlivingexampleofallthat.Iwas
greatandbecamesmall,butnowafterhavingbeenhumbled,I
am a queen elevated over many kingdoms. I have been killed
and made to live. To poor me have been trusted and given
over the great treasures of the sages and the mighty.
[17].“Thereforepowerisalsogivenmetomakethepoor
rich,showkindnesstothelowly,andbringhealthtothesick.
But I am not yet like my well-beloved brother, the great and
powerful king, who is still to be awakened from the dead.
When he comes he will prove that my words are true. ”
[18]. And when she said that the sun shone very bright,
and the day was warmer than before, and the dog days
were at hand. But because, a long time before, there were
prepared for the lordly and great wedding of our new queen
many costly robes, as of black velvet, ashen damask, gray
silk, silver taffeta, snow white satin, even one studded with [013]