 
                                      
 
 
 
The following story is entirely imaginary . . . I hope.  
 
 
CHAPTER ONE  
      
  
 
  New York, New York. Friday, ear ly September, dusk. 
Heading uptown on Madison. Sheets of icy rain washed the 
pavement, heralding the onslaught of autumn and the miserable 
winter to come. The city was poised for its cruelest months, that 
twilight of the spirit when strangers arm -wrestle f or taxis, nobody 
has time to hold a door, and you cherish every fleeting human 
kindness.  
Bring on the blizzards, the holiday madness. This winter I was 
planning something long overdue. To treat my daughter Amy, the 
Madame Curie of her ninth grade, to a rea l vacation. Just us. 
We'd leave at Thanksgiving and stay gone through the Christmas 
break. She got to live with me three months a year, and 
December was by God going to be one of the months. School? 
She'd already skipped a year; maybe she was a little too fast-
track for thirteen.  
Since Joanna, my ex, had already lined up her own holiday 
excursion (Amy the spy claimed it was with some divorced 
Tishman VP), she hadn't bothered inventing the usual roadblocks. 
Clear sailing. We'd open the house down in St. Croi x and spend a 
month getting reacquainted. Work on the tan and some 
postgraduate snorkeling, a strategic move while I still enjoyed a 
small sliver of her attention, before a certain "totally terrific" 
skateboard virtuoso finally got around to noticing her. Only a 
couple of jobs needed finishing, but they'd be wrapped up with 
weeks to spare.  
That night, in truth, had its moments of nostalgia. The 
destination was Sotheby's auction house, a place where Matthew 
Walton was greeted by name at the cashier's window.  Home 
away from home for obsessive collectors. I leaned back   against the vinyl seat of the Checker, letting the rhythm of the 
streetlight halos glimmer past, and reflected on all those happy 
nights I'd made the trek with Joanna. She'd had no real interest in 
my collecting hobby, Japanese samurai swords and armor, but 
she was always a decent sport about it. Besides, she had her own 
passions. While I was agonizing over long blades and short 
blades, she'd sneak off and browse for something French and 
nineteent h century and expensive. Fact is, I'd usually plan ahead 
and have something of my own on the block just to pay for that 
little sketch, or print, she suddenly had to have. Out of habit I'd 
even shipped up a couple of mistakes for the auction this evening 
(a hand axe and a lacquered -metal face guard).  
Though tonight's sale had only a few odd items in my 
specialty, the slim offerings actually suited the occasion. It left the 
evening open, time for the real agenda —getting things rolling with 
a new client who'd inexplicably handed me a job as simple as it 
was strange.  
The man, name of Matsuo Noda, had rung all the way from 
Japan Friday before last, introduced himself in generalities, then 
declared he had a pressing legal matter requiring both speed and 
confidenti ality. Inquiries had led him to me. Would I have time to 
help him locate an office building to buy? He claimed he was head 
of a Kyoto consulting outfit that called itself Nippon, Inc., and he 
was looking for something in midtown, seventy -million range.  
Honestly I couldn't quite believe he was serious at first. Why 
this job (just a little legwork, really) for somebody he'd never even 
met? I could swing it, sure, but now that Japanese investors were 
snapping up U.S. property right and left, who needed some ex -
Texan turned New York lawyer knocking around? There was no 
rational reason to engage a corporate attorney.  
"Out of curiosity, why aren't you working through one of the 
Tokyo firms here in New York, say, Hiro Real Estate or KG Land? 
Surely they could —" 
"Mr. Walton," he interrupted smoothly but firmly, "allow me to 
say I have my reasons. May I remind you I stressed 
confidentiality."  
"Merely asking." I took a deep breath. The connection was 
distorted, a high -pitched hum in the background, as though he 
wasn't using commercial phone lines. "If you want, I can look 
around and see what's on the market . . . and in the meantime 
how about sending along a prospectus, just for the file?"   "Assuredly," he said, "and I do look forward to working with 
you." After a few mo re polite nothings, he abruptly closed out the 
call. 
Peculiar. That wasn't how the Japanese road show usually 
did business. From what I'd seen, Tokyo invests very cautiously 
and deliberately, sometimes "researching" a deal half to death. I 
momentarily wond ered if it wasn't just one of the jokers from my 
old partnership pulling my leg.  
He was real enough. A brochure arrived by overnight air, 
bound in leather, with a flowery covering letter. Two problems: 
most of the thing was in his native tongue, and what I  could read 
didn't tip his hand. From the looks of its public disclosures, 
Nippon, Inc. was merely some kind of money manager for 
Japanese investment banks; it had almost no assets of its own. 
All I could find listed were a few million dollars, lunch money  for a 
Japanese outfit, mostly cash parked in some short -term Euroyen 
paper. That, and a head office in Kyoto, was the sum of it. What's 
more, Noda only worked with Japanese banks and firms. No 
foreign clients.  
So why did this man suddenly require space in  New York? An 
entire building. I honestly couldn't figure it. On the other hand, with 
any luck the whole deal probably could be put together with a few 
phone calls.  
By way of introduction, let me say that I worked, technically, 
as a straightforward attorne y-at-law. I say "technically" because I 
was, in fact, a freelance defensive back in the corporate takeover 
game, which these days is anything but straight. You'd have to go 
back to the roaring twenties to find so many creative screw -jobs.  
Some people are d rawn to power; guess I'm more attracted to 
the idea of occasionally whittling it down to size. So when some 
hotshot raider found a happy little company whose breakup value 
was worth more than the current stock price, then decided to 
move in and grab it, lo ot the assets, and sell off the pieces —one of 
the players apt to end up downfield was Matt Walton. For reasons 
that go a long way back, I liked to break up the running patterns of 
the fast -buck artists. It's a game where you win some and lose 
some. The tri ck is to try and beat the odds, and I suppose I'd had 
my share of luck.  
Give you a quick example. Back in the spring, a midsize 
cosmetics outfit called me in as part of their reinforcements to 
fight an avaricious rape, better known as a hostile takeover, b y 
one of their biggest competitors. After looking over the balance  sheet and shares outstanding, I suggested they divest a couple of 
unpromising consumer divisions —namely a "male fragrance" line 
that made you smell like a kid leaving the barbershop, and a 
"feminine hygiene" product that could have been a patent 
infringement on Lysol —and use the proceeds to buy back their 
own common shares. We also threw together a "poison pill" that 
would have practically had them owning anybody who acquired 
more than twent y percent of their stock. Our move scared hell out 
of the circling vultures and reinforced my reputation on the Street 
(unduly harsh, I thought) as a give -no-quarter son of a bitch.  
Another fact worth mentioning is that I worked without benefit 
of a real o ffice; after selling off my piece of the law partnership, I 
operated out of my place downtown, with a telephone and a 
couple of computers. A kindly gray -haired dynamo by the name of 
Emma Epstein, who had a rent - controlled apartment down the 
block, dropped  by afternoons and handled correspondence, filing, 
matrimonial advice, and the occasional pot of medicinal chicken 
soup. The only other member of my staff was a shaggy sheepdog 
named Benjamin, who served as security chief, periodically 
sweeping the back ga rden for the neighbor's cat. That was it.  
Oh, yes, one other item. Crucial, as it turned out. I'd always 
been a collector of something —once it was antique spurs, for 
chrissake —but about ten years earlier I'd started to get interested 
in things Japanese and  ended up going a little overboard about 
old swords and such. Joanna's unscheduled departure managed 
to burn out a lot of my circuits, and what had been merely an 
obsession grew into something a little crazy. For a year or so I 
became, in my own mind at le ast, a sort of American ronin , a 
wandering samurai.  
You see, the Japanese warriors had a code that said you 
ought to live every moment in full awareness of your own 
mortality. When you adopt this existential outlook, so they 
claimed, all regrets, emotions,  complaints, can be seen as an 
indulgence. You're ready to meet life head -on, to risk everything 
at a moment's notice. That's the only way you ever discover who 
you really are, and it's supposed to make you marvelously 
detached.  
Almost enough to make you f orget how your raven -haired, 
brilliant, sexy mate packed it in one New Year's Eve twenty  
months past . . . when you called late from the office, again . . . 
after declaring that that was the goddam last straw and apparently 
the only thing you could find wo rthy of undivided attention came  printed on goddam computer paper and she was goddam sick of 
it—which she demonstrated the next day by slamming the door on 
her way out.  
Add to which, she used my momentary disorientation to get 
custody of Amy. So while I wa s battling corporate Goliaths, I let 
her walk off with the only thing I would have given my life for. The 
more time went by, the more I wanted to kick myself. Alex Katz (of 
Walton, Halliday, and Katz —now minus the Walton) read the 
custody agreement the day  after I signed it, sighed, glared over 
his smudgy half -lenses, and announced that this kind of 
unconditional surrender should only be signed on the decks of 
battleships. What did he have, a law partner or a fucking 
schlemiel?  
He was right, for all the wro ng reasons. Not long after, I 
cashed in my piece of the firm and went independent. Win or lose, 
it's best to sort things out on your own. I was then forty - three, six 
one, and weighed in at an even one eighty. There were a few 
lines on the face and several  more on the psyche, but the sandy 
hair was mostly intact, and I could still swim a couple of miles if 
absolutely essential. Maybe there was still time for a new start. 
Part of that therapy was going to be our trip.  
Perhaps I should also add that I'd had a  brief "rebound" fling, 
for what it was worth. The lady was Donna Austen, a name you'll 
recognize as belonging to that irrepressibly cheerful 
"Personalities!" host on what Channel Eight likes to term its 
Evening News. She'd called about a segment on the su bject of 
the cosmetics company takeover, then very much in the local 
press, and I'd said fine. She ended up downtown, and soon 
thereafter we became an item. She was the closest I'd had to a 
girlfriend, and at that it was mostly an on -again, off -again thing —
which terminated in an event reminiscent of the Hindenburg’s last 
flight. In the aftermath I went back to chatting with Amy every day 
on the phone, putting together stock buyback packages, and 
collecting Japanese swords.  
Anyway, while the cab waited for a  light, worn -out wipers 
squeaking, I fumbled around in my coat pocket and extracted the 
meishi , the business card, one side in English, the other 
Japanese, that had been included with Noda's letter. He'd  
personalized it with a handwritten note on the side with English 
print. Now, I'd kept track of the new Japanese investment heavies 
in town —Nomura, Daiwa, Nikko, Sumitomo —since you never know 
when a corporation might need some fast liquidity. They were  starting to play hardball, and these days (with all that  cheap 
money back home) they would underbid a nine -figure financing 
deal before Drexel Burnham could spell "junk bond." But Nippon, 
Inc.? Never heard of the outfit.  
Well, I thought, you'll know the story soon enough. The driver 
had just hung a right on Fif ty-seventh and was headed east 
toward York Avenue. I'd called that afternoon to lower the reserve 
on one of my lots and had been told that because of some union 
squabble the preview would continue till just before the sale, now 
scheduled to kick off at eig ht-thirty. It wasn't quite seven yet, so 
we would have at least an hour to run through my list of 
prospective buildings.  
As the cab pulled up next to the chaste glass awning, I took a 
deep breath, shoved a ten through the Plexiglas panel between 
the seats,  and stepped out. While the battered Checker (lamented 
remnant of a vanishing species) squealed into the dark, I 
unbuttoned my overcoat and headed up the steps. A few grim -
faced patrons milled here and there in the lobby, but nobody 
looked familiar. There was even a new girl at the desk by the 
stairs, ash blond and tasteful smoked pearls, pure Bryn Mawr art 
history. A class act, Sotheby's.  
It appeared that most of the Japanese crowd was already 
upstairs, undoubtedly meditating on their bids with the meticul ous 
precision of the Orient. I was headed up the wide, granite steps 
myself when I decided to check out the downstairs one last time.  
Hold on, could be there's a possibility. Waiting over by the 
coat check, thumbing the catalog, was a distinguished -looking  
guy, retirement age, wearing a light, charcoal suit. Italian. Unlike 
the usual Japanese businessmen, he clearly didn't assume he 
had to dress like an undertaker and keep a low profile. No, 
probably just some Mitsubishi board member thinking to diversify 
his portfolio with a few objets d'art . 
Abruptly he glanced up, smiled, and headed my way. I 
realized I'd been recognized.  
"Mr. Walton, how good of you to come." After a quick bow he 
produced his card, a formality that totally ignored the fact he'd 
already s ent me one. As convention required, I held it in my left 
hand and studied it anew while I accepted his hearty American 
handshake. "It's a pleasure to meet you. At last."  
At last?   I let that puzzler pass and handed over a card of my own, 
which he held polit ely throughout our opening ritual, then 
pocketed.  
Noda had a mane of silver hair sculptured around a lean, tan 
face, and he looked to be somewhere between sixty and seventy. 
Though his dark eyes were caught in a web of wrinkles that 
bespoke his years, they  had a sparkle of raw energy. He moved 
with an easy poise, and the initial impression was that of a man 
eminently self -possessed. He had that sturdy, no -nonsense 
assurance usually reserved for airline pilots. If you had to entrust 
somebody with your wife, or your life savings, this man would be 
your pick.  
Well, my new client's a mover, I told myself. All the same, I 
accepted his hand with a vague twinge of misgiving. What was it? 
Maybe something about him was a little too precise, too 
calculated.  
"Mr. Walto n, permit me to introduce my personal consultant." 
He laughed, a slight edge beneath the charm, and more wrinkles 
shot outward from the corners of his eyes. "I always seek her 
approval of major acquisitions, particularly those of the Heian 
period, her spec ialty." He turned with what seemed obvious pride 
and gestured toward the tall Japanese woman standing behind 
him. I'd been so busy sizing him up I'd completely failed to notice 
her. "I must confess she is, in fact, my . . . niece. I suppose that 
ages me." Another smile. "You may possibly be familiar with her 
professional name, so perhaps I should use that. May I introduce 
Akira Mori."  
Who? I stared a second before the face clicked into place. 
And the name. They both belonged to a well -known commentator 
on Tokyo television. Only one slight problem: her "specialty" had 
nothing to do with art.  
"Hajimemashite . How do you do, Mr. Walton." She bowed 
formally and, I noticed, with all the warmth of an iceberg. No 
surprise —I knew her opinion of Americans. She did not  bother 
meeting my eye.  
She looked just as I remembered her from the tube. A 
knockout. Her hair was pulled back into a chignon, framing that 
classic oval face, and her age was anybody's guess, given the 
ivory skin and granite chin. She was wearing a bulky something in 
black and deep ocher by one of the new Tokyo designers. For 
some reason I was drawn to her fingernails, long and bronze. The 
parts, a mixture of classic and avant -garde, did not seem of a  piece, the kind of detail you didn't notice on the TV. But there was 
something more important than her looks.  
I'd been to Tokyo from time to time for various reasons, and 
I'd heard a lot of stories about this lady. Fact is, you didn't have to 
be Japanese to know that Akira Mori was easily Japan's most 
listened -to money analyst. You've probably seen her yourself in 
snippets of that weekly chat show she had on NHK, which used to 
get picked up by the networks here when they needed a quick 
thirty seconds on "Japan This Week" or such. Her ratings had little 
to do wi th the fact she's a looker. She was, talk had it, an 
unofficial source for official government monetary policy. Akira 
Mori always had a lead on exactly what was afoot, from the Bank 
of Japan to the Ministry of Finance, even before the prime 
minister broke the news.  
Miss "Mori," whoever the hell she was, had some very well 
placed friends. Tell you something else, she didn't go out of her 
way to find flattering things to say about how Uncle Sam handled 
his bankbook these days. Her appearance here made Noda's 
unorthodox office plans even more perplexing.  
"We both appreciate your taking time from your schedule to 
meet with us." He bowed again. "We've been looking forward to 
having you join us at the sale."  
While Akira Mori appeared to busy herself with a catalog , 
Noda and I got things going with that standard formality preceding 
any serious Japanese professional contact: meaningless chat. It's 
how they set up their ningen kankei , their relationship with the 
other guy, and it's also the way they fine -tune their honne, their 
gut feeling about a situation. Any greenhorn foreigner who skimps 
on these vital niceties runs the risk of torpedoing his whole deal.  
In response to my pro forma inquiries, Matsuo Noda declared 
he liked New York, had even lived here for a while once, honestly 
found it less hectic than Tokyo, usually stayed these days at the 
Japanese hotel down on Park but sometimes picked the Plaza 
when he needed to be closer to midtown. He adored La 
Grenouille and thought La Tulipe overpraised. When I pressed 
him, he declared his favorite Japanese place to dine was Nippon, 
over in the East Fifties (maybe he merely liked the name, but it 
was my pick as well).  
After he had in turn solicited my own views on Sotheby's, a 
couple of the galleries down Madison, and vari ous North Italian 
eateries, he suggested we go on upstairs and preview the lots.   All the while Miss Mori appeared to ignore us, standing there 
like a statue of some Shinto goddess, except for the occasional 
tug at her dark hair. Maybe she didn't give a dam n about this 
obligatory small talk, thought it was old -fashioned. Or possibly she 
liked the idea of being the only one not to show a hand. And as 
Noda led the way up toward the exhibition rooms, she trailed 
behind like a dutiful Japanese woman —while we, na turally, 
continued to talk of everything except, God forbid, why we were 
there.  
In the first room we were suddenly in my arena —samurai 
swords and battle gear.  
"This is your special interest, is it not, Mr. Walton?" Noda 
smiled, then turned to admire the ro w of shining steel tachi , three -
foot-long razors, now being watched over by a trio of nervous 
guards. Sotheby's didn't need some amateur Toshiro Mifune 
accidentally carving up the clientele. "I understand you have a 
notable collection yourself."  
What? What  else did he know about me?  
Easy, Walton. Play the game. I knew what a Japanese would 
expect in reply.  
"Matter of fact, I've lucked onto a couple of items over the 
years." Then the standard disclaimers. My own painstaking 
collection was merely a grab bag o f knickknacks, the fumbling 
mistakes of a dabbler, etc., etc.  
Noda monitored this culturally correct blarney with 
satisfaction. "As it happens, Mr. Walton, I was in Nagoya last year 
when several of your pieces were on loan for the show at the 
Tokugawa Muse um. I still recall certain ones, particularly that fine 
fifteenth -century katana, attributed to the Mizuno clan. Unusual 
steel. No date or mark of the swordsmith, but a remarkable piece 
all the same." A split -second pause. "Your reluctance to part with 
it was most understandable."  
This man had done his homework! Or maybe he'd been the 
one who had tried to buy it. The steel was unusual, too heavy on 
copper. I'd even had a little metallurgical testing done on it down 
at Princeton, just to prove that hunch. Bu t it was no big  
deal, merely an oddity that had fallen my way via an estate sale. 
There was an anonymous inquiry shortly after the exhibition 
opened, with an insistent offer, but I'd turned it down.  
Poker time. "I was honored. Your figure was more than 
generous."   He laughed —bull's -eye. I watched as he glanced back at Miss 
Mori, maybe a bit nervously. Then he returned his attention. 
"Merely a small gesture for the museum. I felt it should be back in 
Japanese hands." He continued, his voice now sober. "You do  
understand?"  
"Certainly." I just stared.  
"Good. I see I was right." He had paused to examine a large 
monochrome screen. It was eighteenth century and he inspected 
it with only mild interest, then moved on.  
I was still knocked over. Could that be why he'd retained me 
as his U.S. legal counsel? Because of some damned antique 
sword? Okay, I was already getting the idea Matsuo Noda might 
be a trifle eccentric, but all the same . . .  
"Interesting." He was pointing at a long picture, part of a 
series locked in a  wide glass case. " Honto ni omoshiroi, desu ne ?' 
Miss Mori was already there. In a voice scarcely above a 
whisper she proceeded to give him a rundown of pros and cons. It 
was the first time I'd noticed any enthusiasm out of the woman all 
night.  
I checked m y catalogue. The piece was a Heian hand scroll, 
said to be "exceedingly rare." After a few moments Noda 
motioned me over. "Perhaps you could give us your opinion. What 
do you think?" He pointed down. "The subject is intriguing. These 
are ladies -in-waiting for the emperor, Fujiwara. Notice the delicate 
refinement of the coloring, the matched fabrics, each enhancing 
the other like flowers in a bouquet. That was eight centuries ago, 
just before the rise of the first shogun, the first 'generalissimo' who 
would rule in the emperor's name."  
When he said "shogun," niece Mori shot him a quick 
admonitory glance. There was some kind of unmistakable 
electricity passing. Something left unspoken.  
"The Heian era ended with the great conflict between the 
Heike and Genji cl ans that led to the death of the ruling emperor 
in 1185 and the loss of the imperial sword at sea." Next he said 
something in guttural Japanese to Mori, obviously very intent, and 
indicated one corner of the painting, where the emperor sat. Her 
reply was q uick and curt. Now, I only know a little of the language, 
maybe a couple of cuts above Berlitz level, but I did manage to 
pick up she wasn't talking about the painting. Something to do 
with the emperor himself, though I missed the rapid -fire delivery.  
In response to Noda's question I tried to sound intelligent, 
saying the ink coloring looked well preserved, or some such  auction house mumbo jumbo. It wasn't my thing really, which the 
man surely knew. He seemed to know everything else about me. 
After he liste ned politely, they switched back to Japanese and 
finally settled on a bid. I watched as she marked it in the 
catalogue —low six figures.  
Walton, I thought, you're dealing with a pair of heavyweights.  
By then I'd decided not to bother bidding on anything. Th ere 
were too many curious twists, not to mention the building deal. 
Surely the ritual had gone far enough, the samurai negotiating 
ploy of making your adversary be first to reveal his game plan.  
Why not bring up why we were there, just for the hell of it?  
When I did, Noda betrayed a fleeting smile. "But of course, 
the building." He made it sound like some kind of trivial 
annoyance, a nuisance to get out of the way so we could all get 
back to the serious work of admiring the pretty pictures.  
Touche , I though t. Round one to Noda, on points. "I assume 
you've had a look at the package of materials I messengered up 
to your hotel yesterday?"  
A broker friend had put together some listings for office 
buildings around midtown —it turned out the market was softening 
a touch due to the latest construction binge —and I'd hoped that 
maybe something would catch Noda's eye. Matter of fact, there 
were a couple of real bargains over near Sixth.  
"My people have examined it in detail. We would like to move 
forward on the twenty -story building on Third Avenue."  
For a second I thought he was joking. Sure we'd tossed in the 
write -up, because it fit his profile, but it was a crazy all - cash deal, 
and they wanted ninety million, firm.  
"Did you read the terms on that one? It's all —" 
"There is a vacant floor, is there not? Available immediately?"  
"Well, yes, but —" 
"There may be a few items to clarify —we would like your legal 
opinion concerning the leases of the existing tenants —but nothing 
major. If the seller is prepared, I think we coul d even go to 
contract early next week, while I'm here. I would like very much to 
close as soon as possible. If some of my staff can meet with the 
seller's attorneys over the weekend, perhaps we can start work."  
Over the weekend? No counter bid, no haggling ? Now, you 
didn't have to be a brain surgeon to realize this was a fast -track 
deal; Matsuo Noda was a man in a hurry. "Looks like you just may 
have yourself a piece of property. I'll try and get hold of them in 
the morning, if I can, and start the ball rol ling."  