January 1.
“Redeeming the time ”(Eph. v. 16).
Two little words are found in the Greek version here. They
are translated “ton kairon ”in the revised version, “Buying up
foryourselvestheopportunity. ”Thetwowords tonkairon mean,
literally, the opportunity.
They do not refer to time in general, but to a special point
of time, a juncture, a crisis, a moment full of possibilities and
quickly passing by, which we must seize and make the best of
before it has passed away.
It is intimated that there are not many such moments of
opportunity, because the days are evil; like a barren desert, in
which, here and there, you find a flower, pluck it while you
can; like a business opportunity which comes a few times in a
life-time; buy it up while you have the chance. Be spiritually
alert; be not unwise, but understanding what the will of God is.
“Walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, buying up for
yourselves the opportunity. ”
Sometimes it is a moment of time to be saved; sometimes a
soul to be led to Christ; sometimes it is an occasion for love;
sometimes for patience: sometimes for victory over temptation
and sin. Let us redeem it.
[008] January 2.
“I will cause you to walk in My statutes ”(Eze. xxxvi. 27).
Thehighestspiritualconditionisonewherelifeisspontaneous
and flows without effort, like the deep floods of Ezekiel's river,
wherethestrugglesoftheswimmerceased,andhewasborneby
the current's resistless force.
So God leads us into spiritual conditions and habits which
become the spontaneous impulses of our being, and we live and
move in the fulness of the divine life.
Butthesespiritualhabitsarenottheoutcomeofsometransitory
impulse, but are often slowly acquired and established. They
begin, like every true habit, in a definite act of will, and they are
confirmed by the repetition of that act until it becomes a habit.
The first stages always involve effort and choice. We have to
take a stand and hold it steadily, and after we have done so a
certaintime,itbecomessecondnature,andcarriesusbyitsown
force.
TheHolySpiritiswillingtoformsuchhabitsineverydirection
of our Christian life, and if we will but obey Him in the first
steppingsoffaith,wewillsoonbecomeestablishedintheattitude
of obedience, and duty will be delight.
[009] January 3.
“Watch and pray ”(Matt. xxvi. 41).
Weneedtowatchforprayersaswellasfortheanswerstoour
prayers. It needs as much wisdom to pray rightly as it does faith
to receive the answers to our prayers.
We met a friend the other day, who had been in years of
darkness because God had failed to answer certain prayers, and
the result had been a state bordering on infidelity.
A very few moments were sufficient to convince this friend
that these prayers had been entirely unauthorized, and that God
had never promised to answer such prayers, and they were for
things which this friend should have accomplished himself, in
the exercise of ordinary wisdom.
Theresultwasdeliverancefromacloudofunbeliefwhichwas
almost wrecking a Christian life. There are some things about
whichwedonotneedtopray,asmuchastotakethelightwhich
God has already given.
Many persons are asking God to give them peculiar signs,
tokens and supernatural intimations of His will. Our business is
to use the light He has given, and then He will give whatever
more we need.
[010] January 4.
“Blessed is the man that walketh not ”(Ps. i. 1).
Three things are notable about this man:
1. His company. “He walketh not in the counsel of the
ungodly,norstandethinthewayofsinners,norsittethintheseat
of the scornful. ”
2. His reading and thinking. “His delight is in the law of the
Lord, and in His law doth he meditate day and night. ”
3. His fruitfulness. “And he shall be like a tree planted by the
riversofwater,thatbringethforthhisfruitinhisseason;hisleaf
also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. ”
The river is the Holy Ghost; the planting, the deep, abiding
life in which, not occasionally, but habitually, we absorb the
Holy Spirit; and the fruit is not occasional, but continual, and
appropriate to each changing season.
His life is also prosperous, and his spirit fresh, like the
unfading leaf. Such a life must be happy. Indeed, happiness is
a matter of spiritual conditions. Put a sunbeam in a cellar and it
must be bright. Put a nightingale in the darkest midnight, and it
must sing.
[011] January 5.
“I know him that he will do the law ”(Gen. xviii. 19).
God wants people that He can depend upon. He could say of
Abraham, “I know him, that the Lord may bring upon Abraham
all that He hath spoken. ”God can be depended upon; He wants
us to be just as decided, as reliable, as stable. This is just what
faith means. God is looking for men on whom He can put the
weight of all His love, and power, and faithful promises. When
God finds such a soul there is nothing He will not do for him.
God's engines are strong enough to draw any weight we attach
to them. Unfortunately the cable which we fasten to the engine
is often too weak to hold the weight of our prayer, therefore
Godisdrillingus,discipliningus,andtrainingustostabilityand
certainty in the life of faith. Let us learn our lessons, and let us
stand fast.
God has His best things for the few
Who dare to stand the test;
God has his second choice for those
Who will not have His best.
Give me, O Lord, Thy highest choice,
Let others take the rest.
Their good things have no charm for me,
For I have got Thy best.
[012] January 6.
“The body is not one member, but many ”(I. Cor. xii. 14).
We have a friend who has a phonograph for his
correspondence. It consists of two parts. One is a simple
and wonderful apparatus, whose sensitive cylinders receive the
tones and then give them out again, word for word, through the
hearing tube. The other part is a common little box that stands
under the table, and does nothing but supply the power through
connecting wires.
Now, the little box might insist upon being the phonograph,
anddoingthetalking;butifitshould,itwouldnotonlywasteits
own life but destroy the life of its partner.
Its sole business is to supply power to the phonograph, while
thelatteristodothetalking.Sosomeofusarecalledtobevoices
to speak for God to our fellow-men, others are forces to sustain
them, by our holy sympathy and silent prayer. (Some of us are
littledynamosunderthetable,whileothersarephonographsthat
speak aloud the messages of heaven.)
LeteachofusbetruetoourGod-givenministry,andwhenthe
daycomesourworkwillbeweighedandtherewardsdistributed.
[013] January 7.
“Now unto Him that is able to keep you from stumbling ”(Jude
24).
This is a most precious promise. The revised translation is
both accurate and suggestive. It is not merely from falling that
He wants to keep us, but from even the slightest stumbling.
We are told of Abraham that he staggered not at the promise.
God wants us to walk so steadily that there will not even be a
quiver in the line of His regiments as they face the foe. It is
the little stumblings of life that most discourage and hinder us,
and most of these stumblings are over trifles. Satan would much
ratherknockusdownwithafeatherthanwithanArmstronggun.
Itismuchmoretohishonorandkeendelighttodefeatachildof
God by some flimsy trifle than by some great temptation.
Beloved, let us watch, in these days, against the orange peels
thattripusonourpathway,thelittlefoxesthatdestroythevines,
andthedeadfliesthatmar,sometimes,awholevesselofprecious
ointment. “Trifles make perfection, ”and as we get farther on,
in our Christian life, God will hold us much more closely to
obedience in things that seem insignificant.
[014] January 8.
“It is I, be not afraid ”(Mark vi. 50).
Someone tells of a little child with some big story of sorrow
upon its little heart, flying to its mother's arms for comfort, and
intending to tell her the story of its trouble; but as that mother
presses it to her bosom and pours out her love, it soon becomes
so occupied with her and the sweetness of her affection that it
forgets to tell its story, and in a little while even the memory of
the trouble is forgotten. It has just been loved away, and she has
taken its place in the heart of the little one.
This is the way God comforts us Himself. “It is I, be not
afraid,”is His reassuring word. The circumstances are not
altered, but He Himself comes in their place, and satisfies every
needofourbeing,andweforgetallthingsinHissweetpresence,
as He becomes our all in all.
I am breathing out my sorrow
On Thy kind and loving breast;
Breathing in Thy joy and comfort,
Breathing in Thy peace and rest.
I am breathing out my longings
In Thy listening, loving ear;
I am breathing in Thy answer,
Stilling every doubt and fear.
[015] January 9.
“Not as I will, but as Thou wilt ”(Matt. xxvi. 39).
“To will and do of His good pleasure ”(Phil. ii. 13).
There are two attitudes in which our will should be given to
God.
First. We should have the surrendered will. This is where
we must all begin, by yielding up to God our natural will, and
having Him possess it.
But next, He wants us to have the victorious will. As soon as
Hereceivesourwillinhonestsurrender,HewantstoputHiswill
intoitandmakeitstrongerthaneverforHim.Itishenceforthno
longer our will, but His will. And having yielded to His choice
and placed itself under His direction, He wants to put into it all
the strength and intensity of His own great will and make us
positive, forceful, victorious and unmovable, even as Himself.
“NotMywill,butThinebedone. ”Thatisthefirststep. “Father,
I will that they whom Thou hast given Me, be with Me. ”That
is the second attitude. Both are divine; both are right; both are
necessary to our right living and successful working for God.
[016] January 10.
“Charity doth not behave itself unseemly ”(I. Cor. xiii. 5).
In the dress of a Hindu woman, her graceful robe is fastened
upon her person entirely by means of a single knot. The long
stripofclothiswoundaroundherpersonsoastofallingraceful
folds like a made garment, and the end is fastened by a little
knot, and the whole thing hangs by that single fastening. If that
were loosed the robe would fall. And so in the spiritual life, our
habits of grace are likened unto garments; and it is also true that
the garment of love, which is the beautiful adorning of the child
of God, is entirely fastened by little nots.
If you will read with care the thirteenth chapter of I.
Corinthians, you will find that most of the qualities of love
are purely negative. “Love envieth not, love vaunteth not itself,
is not puffed up, doth not behave herself rudely, seeketh not her
own, is not provoked, thinketh no evil. ”Here are“nots”enough
to hold on our spiritual wardrobe. Here are reasons enough to
explain the failure of so many, and the reason why they walk
naked, or with rent garments, and others see their shame. Let us
look after the nots.
[017] January 11.
“Hold fast till I come ”(Rev. ii. 25).
The other day we asked a Hebrew friend how it was that
his countrymen were so successful in acquiring wealth. “Ah,”
said he,“we do not make more money than other people, but
we keep more. ”Beloved, let us look out this day for spiritual
pickpockets and spiritual leakage. Let us “lose nothing of what
we have wrought, but receive a full reward ”; and, as each day
comes and goes, let us put away in the savings bank of eternity
its treasures of grace and victory, and so be conscious from day
to day that something real and everlasting is being added to our
eternal fortune.
It may be but a little, but if we only economize all that God
givesus,andpassitontoHiskeeping,whenthecloseshallcome
we shall be amazed to see how much the accumulated treasures
of a well spent life have laid up on high, and how much more
He has added to them by His glorious investment of the life
committed to His keeping.
Oh, how the days are telling! Oh, how precious these golden
hours will seem sometime! God help us to make the most of
them now.
[018]