Part 1.

The Parable.

Section I

‘The Parable.

In an old book I discovered an extraordinary narrative entitled
Parabola, [take tas the starting pint of my observations because
it affords a weleome guide. In the endeavor to understand the
parable and get a psychological insight into it, we are led on to
journey through these very realms of fancy into which I should
like to conduct the reader. At the end of our journey we shall
have acquired, withthe understanding of the first example, the
knowledge of certain psychical laws.

1 shal, then, without further prelude introduce the example,
and purposely avoid atthe outset mentioning the ttle ofthe old
book so thatthe reader may bein a position tallow the narrative
to alfect him without any preconceived ideas. Explanatory
interpolations in the text, which come from me, I distinguish
with square brackets,

[UL As once I strolled in fair forest, young and green nd
contemplated the piafulaess ofthis hfe, and lamented how
 (wn

Hidden Symbolism of Alchemy and the Occult Ants

ough the die fll of ou fist pares we inherited such
risey and distress, chanced, while thinking these thoughts,
1o dear fom the usual pth, and ound mysel, Low aot
how, on 2 aarow footpath that was rough, untrodden and
impassable, and overgrown with so much underbrush and
uss thar it was easy 0 see it was very litle used. Theefore
was dismayed and would gladly have ge bak, but it was
notin my power todo so since a tong wind so powerfully
ow me on, that could rater tke tn step in advance than
‘one backward,

[2], Therefore I had w go on ad ot mind the rough
walking.

13}, After Thad advanced a good while Teams fly
a lovely meadow hedged about witha ound ele of fut
euing wees, and called by the dwellers Prana flicats
[tbe meadow of felicity], Lwas in the midst ofa company of
‘old men with band as raya ee except fr one bo Was
‘quite a young man witha pind black bear, Also there was
mong them coe whose name was well kaowa Lome, But is
‘sage I could aot yet soe, who was sill younger, and they
<ebated on all kinds of subjees,priulaly about great and
Toy mystery. hidden ia Nate, which God kept concealed
fom the gest world, and reveled to aly a fw who loved
him

[sh Histone long an heir discourse pleased me well,
‘only some would break forth from retant, not touching
‘upon the mater r work, but what touched up the parables,
Smilies and ote pacig. ia which they followed the
pci fancies of Asso, Play and others which the one
fad copied fiom the aber. So T could contain myself
Tonge and mixed in my owe mustard (putin my own word).
refuted such iva things fom experience and the maj
side with me, examined min toe faculty and made it quite
hat for me. However the foundation of my knowledge was
so good, that I paved wit all honors, whereupon ey ll
\wereamuzed, unanimously cluded and admit me in their
 ‘Section I. The Parable,

collin, of which Iwas heartily gla

[Sh But they sid I could not be areal colleague al
learod to know thei ion and became davoughly acquainted
ith his powers and ables, For that purpose I should use
ligence sas subdue hi I was uite confident ia myself
and peomised them I would do my best. For thee company
pleased me so well hat I would not have parted from them
fora great deal

(6). They led me to the lion and deseibed him very
<areully. but what I should undertake wih im pone could
tel me. Some of them indoed hited, but very daly. so that
the (Der Tausende) Thosandthonecouldnothave understood
him. But when 1 should fis succeed in subduing him nd
should have assured myself agaist is sharp laws and keen
teeth, then they would conceal nothing from me. Now the
lion was very ld ferocious and lre, his yellow hai hung
over is peck. he appeared gute uncongurabe so that as
los fad of my temenity and would gladly have tamed
ack sf my promise and also the circumstance thatthe elders
stood shout me and were wating See what I would do, bad
allowed me wo give up. In grea confidence I apreached the
lia in his de and began to cares im, but he looked at me
so ircely with his gly shining eyes that U coud hardly
resrain mi ters Jus the I emembered that I had eared
from one ofthe ees, while we were going tothe lion's
den that very many people ha undertaken to overcome the
lig and very few could accomplish it I was unwilling be
slsgrced and called several gis that Thad lead with
eat digence in ables, besides which I Was Well versed
‘natural magic [magia] $01 gave up the caresses and seized
the Hon so dexwowsy, ally at sbuly, tat before be
wus well wae of tI frced the blood out of bis body. yea,
ven out of his eu Iwas Beall eed but very coli.
Talssected him further and found, a Tat which caused me
touch wonder, tit bis bones wete white as snow and sexe
‘wus much mote bone than there was blood.

 (ws

Hidden Symbolism of Alchemy and the Occult Ants

[71 Now whon my dear elders, who stod above around
the den and looked at me, were aware of they disputed
‘arestly wih each oe, for so much could infer fromthe
‘motions but what they sid I could not hear since Iwas dep
own inthe den, Yet as thy came clove in dispute T heard
at one sid, "He must ring hi oe agai, ese be ean
not be our colleague.” I was unwilling to undertake further
icles, and betook myself ou ofthe dent a grat place,
and came, know not how, ona very high wal, whose height
rove over 10 ells ward the clouds, bu on op ws noe
foot wide. And there went up fom the beginning. whore I
ascended, othe end an fon hand i igh along the center
‘ofthe wall, with many leaded supports. On this wall came,
Tay, and mescems there went onthe ight side ofthe eiing
ima several paces before me

[SL But as followed him awhile I saw another following
ne on the oer side. yet t was doubt whether man or
woman, hcl ome and said that it was beter walking
‘on hit side than where { went, as I realy believed, because
the aig that stood ear theme made the ath so aro
athe going at such height was vey ba Then Isa also
Some that wished to goon tat pth, fal: down below bei
me therefore swung under the aling; olding tight with ny
hands and went forward onthe edhe sf sie tl finally
‘came toa place onthe wall which was very precipitous ad
‘dangerous to descend, Then fist Fvepeted that I had not
stayed onthe edhe ight] side an I could not 0 under othe
‘ter side ait was so imposible to tum ound and get on
the oer path. So rskod it tse tomy god fet, held
myself ught and eame down without harm, and as I walked
ali fue, looked and knew of uo other danger, but also
new not what had become of wall and eling.

[9]. After 1 came down, there std in that place a
eauufUlsose bush, on which Reaufil fe and white roses
were growing. the red more numerous, bowevee, than the
white broke off some roses fom te bush and put them

 ‘Section I. The Parable,

om my hat. Bu there seemed to be inthe same place a wall,
surounding a great garden, Inthe garden were lads, and
ter lases who would lady bein the garden, but would ot
wander widely, or ake the trouble to comet the gates, So
Tpiied thm. T vent free along the path by which [ad
ome sill othe lvl, and weat so fast that T son came 10
some houses, where I supposed I sould find the gurdene’s
house. But I found there many people, each having his own
room, They were slow: Two together they worked diligently,
eceach ad his own work. [The meaning may be either
that wosking alone they wee slow, but ia 60s they worked
dligenly: two of them worked tgeter and were lige.
Bosh amount the same hing a we shll ater realize.) But
wha they dit seems, had myself done before and al hit
work was familia to me. Especially, thought I, se, if 30
‘many other people do so much diy and sloppy work. thats
only an appearance aconding io each oe conceit, but has
season in Nate, 0 st may also be pardoned ip you. 1
Wished, therefore, because I knew such wiks vanished like
state, to remain here no longer in ai and proceeded on my
forme way

(HO). After had anived atthe gate ofthe garden, some on
fone side looked soul at me so that Twas aad they ght
hinder me in my projet: but oes sad, "See he wl ao
the gaden and we ave dove garden sevice bere s0 long.
andhave never gates in; we wil laugh ban down i bef
But Idi nos egal thats know the conditions ofthis
surdn beter than they even if Uhad never bee init but Went
‘igh o agate that was ight shut so tht one could either See
or iad a keyhole. Inotced, however, that tle round hole
that wth dinar ees could ot be seen, was ia the do, ad
‘hough immediately dat mustbe de way the door is opened
was ready with my specially prepared Diedech, unlocked
td went in, When I was inede the dor, [found several
tor bolted does, which yet opencd without ule. Here
however, was a pasge Way, jus as AC was ina well uit

 10

Hidden Symbolism of Alchemy and the Occult Ants

house, some ix fet wide and twenty log, with sof above
[And though the other doors were sil lacked, {coud ely
see tough them into the garden asthe fst dor was ope,

[11] 1 wandered inthe garde in Gas name. and found
in the midst of i small garden, that was square and six
rood log. hedged in with ose thorns, and ie rses loomed
eaflly. But ast was raining gel, andthe sun shone in
it iveauseda very lovely eaiabow. When Ihad passed beyond
te ie garden and would goto the place whee Twas tobelp
the maids beold Twas wae that instead ofthe walls ow
hale sood here, and tere went along by the rose garden
the ort beat aiden arrayed in white stn, withthe
ros suey youth, wo wasn scarlet each giving ar tothe
‘ter ad carrying inher hands many fragrant rose. Lspoke
to them and asked therm how they had come over te bard
“This, my beloved bridegroom” said she. “has beped me
‘over and we ate going n0W out ofthis beau garden ito
‘ur apartment enjoy the pleasures love."“Tam glad said
[eth without any fuer wouble on my part your desires
ane satsfod: et see how Ihave hurd, and have un so long
aay in so shot a time to serve you." After that Lcame ato
2 ea mil uit insde of stones, in which Were no flor bias
‘rahe hings ha pertained ogriading bu ones thou
the was several water whcels going in wate. Lashed why
it ad equipment for grinding. An old miller answered that
the ml wae shutdown on the other side, Just then Talo
saw millers boy goin rom the sue plank (Schutzenseg,
and [followed after him. When I had come over the plank
[Steg], which had the water wheels on the Ie 1 stood still
and ws amazed at wha uw tee. For the wheels wee ow
higher than the plank, the water coal black buts drops were
Yt white. and the slice planks wore not over dee gers
Wide, Sil I vented back a eld ono the ticks ha were
‘over the sce planks and so cae safely and dry aver the
wate. Then Tasked the old miller how many wer wheels be
Tad. “Ten” answered he. The adventure suc in my mind
 ‘Section I. The Parable,

1 should have gladly knowa wha the meaning Was. But as
iced thatthe miler woud ot leave I wen away, and tere
asin rot ofthe ml ty paved bill on which were some
of the previously mentioned elders who walked in the sun
which then shane ery warm, and they ha a ewe fom the
‘wholefaculy writen othe, on which they were consuling.
[Un our meen mode of expression, the elles had dicted
‘leer tothe aun, and so I find the passage in an English
version ofthe parable. This generally bungling transation is
tovetiles notin the leat authoritative. And akbough an
ceptable meaning is derived rm it if ne egal the un
sth us mentioned “pine,” yet belive a er translation
sould be given . the elders walked in dhe warm sunshine
they consulted about eter weten to hem by the fac
soon noticed what the coments must ean that it eoncerned
tne. [went dheefoe to them and sad, *Gensemen, does i
concern me” “Yes.” said they. "You must keep in mariage
‘he woman that you have ecenly taken oF We must no our
prince.” sad, “hati ao wouble as as Born athe sane
time a she and brought up a8 child with hee, and 6 have
taken her once I will ep ber forever, and deat itself hall
ot pars, for Ihave an ardent affection for her.” “What have
we then to complain of?” replied they. “The bide is cote
and we have your will: you must copulate.” “Content,” sid
“Well” sid one. “the lion wll shen regain his Life and
become more powerful and mighty than befor.”

[12], Then eccured 19 me my previous tube and labor
and I thought o nyse ht for putea easons it mast ot
oncem me but some oter that i wellknown tome; then
{saw out bridegroom and his bride go by in thir pevious
ane, ead and pepated for copulation which gave me great
Joy. for E was i great distes lest the Ming might concern

13}. Whea, then, a menoned, out bideproom in his
twine scare clothes with his detest bide, whowe white
satin coat shot oth Bight sys came 10 the proper mariage
 Hidden Symbolism of Alchemy and the Occult Ants

sage, they joie the two so quickly that 1 wondeed ot
Tide hat dhs maid, hat was supposed be the mer ofthe
Iwidegroom, was sill 50 young that she appeared to be jst
ten,

[1]. Now 1 do ot know what si hese 140 must ave
commited except that although they were brother and ise,
they wet in such wise bound by is of love, tit hey coud
not be Separated, and so, a it were, wished 1 be punished
for incest. These two were, instead of a tide bed and
magnificent mariage. condemaed and shut up i an enduring
and everlasting prison, which, because of thee high bith td
oodly stat. and also so tt is Tate they should not be
uty i secre, bl thee conduct shouldbe how othe
fan placed over them and inhi sight, was made quite
transparent, bright and clear like a crystal, and sound ke &
sphere of heaven, and there they were with continual teats
ahd te cntton to stone and make reparation fr thee past
misdeeds, (Instead of oa bride be the wo were brought
{1 pisn, so that teractions could be watched. The pion
ws transparent: it was right crys clear chamber, Hike a
sphere of heaven, coespaning othe high postion ofthe
1 persons] Previously. however, al ee ae clothing aad
finery ha they had pa on fr mameat was taken away.
So tha i such a chamber they must be gute naked and
merely dwell with each oto. [Its nt deety understood
by these wows tha  eahabiation in modem sens coton)
is meant According to modern language the passage must
he rendered, “hd 0 dwell near each other naked and bu

(One is reminded, moveover, of the nuptial customs tha are
‘observed particulny in the mariage of persons of igh bith,
Tn any’ case and, inspite of my reservation, what occurs is
‘conducive or designe to lead to the sexual ution | Besides
‘hey gavethom no one tha ha to go into the chamber to wait
‘on them, but fle they put iy al the cesses in the way of|
meat and dria, which wore tated fom the afore metioned
ate, the doo af the chamber was fast bolted and looked,
 ‘Section I. The Parable,

the faculty seal impressed on it and I was enjoined that 1
shoud gussd them hee, and spend the winter before the dor
the chamber shouldbe duly Warmed so that they be neither
too hot nor too cold, and they could neither come out nor
«scape. But should they, on accoust of ay bope of Weaking
this mandate, escape, I would shoveupon be jay subjected
tw heavy punishment wasnt pleased by the thing, my feat
and soicude made me fiat heated oF I comsmuned with
tnyslf that it as no small thing that had befallen me, 361
‘ow also thar the college of wisdom was accustomed not 10
He but to put ito action wha it said. Yt because ¥ could
ot changeit beside which his locked chamber stood inthe
enter ofa tong tower and surrounded with strong bulwacks
and high walls in whichone could with smal but continuous
fie warm the whole chamber, I undertook this office, and
began in Gods name to warm the chamber, and protect the
immpesoned pi fom the cold. But what happened? Ax son
2 thy porcsved the slghest warmth they embraced cach
torso tenderly thatthe ike will pt son be see, and stayed
so otthat the youn bidgroom's hearin his body disalved
for andeat love, aso his whole bady almost mated in his
Ioloveds arms and fll part. When she who loved him 0
les than he dd, satis, she wep over him passionately
ands it were busch wih he ears that one could ot
see, for hor gusiag teats that overflowed everthing, where
te wet. Her weeping and scrowing a even ber wo thi in
‘shor time, and she woud not fr deep anguish of bear live
longer, but Voluntaly gave herself death Ab woe i me
i what pain an ned and rouble was that ny two charges
ad uit asappeared in water, and death ale was lef for
me. My cenain destruction std before my eyes, and what
asthe greatest hardship me, eae the tated samme
and disgrace that would happe 10 me, more than the ijory
that would overtake me,

[US]. As T now passed several days in such solitude and
pondered over the question how I coud remedy my affas,

to.
 4

Hidden Symbolism of Alchemy and the Occult Ants

it occed to me how Mea had revived the dead body of
Aes, and I thought to myself, “If Medea could do such
4 thing, why should such ding fail me” I began a once
1 bathnk me how I would do i found however no beter
ay than that I sould peesist with conus! wash ul
the waters disappeared, and I might sce again the cops of
‘our lovers. As hoped o come off without danger and with
eat advantage and praise I went oa with ny warmth tht
Thad begun ad continued i forty whole days as Iwas aware
thatthe water Kept on diminishing the longer I kept up,
nd the corpses that were yt as blak as col, began again
to be visible. And wu this woul have cured before if
the chamber bad not been al to securely locked an bolted
Which yet did ot aval wo open. Foe T noted parila
that the wate that rove and hastened othe cloud, cll
above in the chamber and fell down ike ri, so that thing
‘ould come oft until our beidegsoom with his dearest bide,
‘dead and ten, and therefore hasousy stinking, ay before

All the while the sunshine in the mist weather caused
sn execedingl beatiful uinbow wo be sea, i the chamber,
Wit surpesingly beautiful cols, which overjoyed nota litle
nny overpowering afiction. Mach move was delighted that
saw my two lovers ying Before me again. But a 9 joy is
So gat but is mixed with much sadness, so I was woubled
in my joy hiking that my charges ay stl dead before me,
and one could wace no ie in ther, But because I knew that
tee chamber was made of such pre and thick material also
So tightlocked that hei soul and spit ould a got ou, bat
vs still sey guarded within, coatinued with my steady
warmth day and igh, opoform my delegated offic, quite
impressed withthe fact hat the two wuld nt stunt het
adies, long asthe moisture coatited. For ia the moist
sate nature keep itself the same, as T then als found in
fact and in wut. Foe was aware upon exefal examination
at from the eth at evening though the power ofthe sun,
 ‘Section I. The Parable,

many vapors arose and drew themselves up just a the sun
draws water They were condense inthe ight in lovely
and ery fritfl dew, which very’ early ia the moming fel
td moistened the ea and washed our dead care, 0
that ftom day today. the longer sich bathing and washing
conned, the more beaut and whiter they became. But
‘hear and whiter they became the more the lost mois
Ul inaly the ai boing Height and beautiful ad al the mist
and moist weather, having pase the spit and sul ofthe
bride could hold itself no longer inthe bright at, bu went
ck ito the clarified and ill mov transfigred body f the
sgqucea bo soon experienced i Le her soul and spirit] and
once lived apa. This den as Tcoud easily observe ota
line pleased me, especialy a saw ber arise in supastngly
costly garments whose like was never seen on earth, and with
precious crown decked with igh diamonds and also heard
her speak Hear ye chien of men and perceive ye tha te
bom of women, thatthe mos high power ca set up king ad
can vernove Kings. He makes ich and poor, according this
Wil He ils and makes again to ve.”

{16}. See in me a uue a ivng example ofall that. 1 was
eatand became sal. but now aller having been humbled,
ama queen elevated over many kingdoms. Ihave bee killed
and made to live. To poor me have been wasted and sven
over the peut testes ofthe sages and the mighty.

U7}. "Therefoe power is aso given me 1 maketh poor
sh, show kinder tothe lowly and bing hel tthe ick.
But Lam not yer like my well-loved brother the eat ad
powerful king. who is sill © be awakened fom the dea
‘Whe becomes he will prove hat my woes are tue.”

[US], And whet she sd thatthe sun shone very bight,
and the day was warmer than before, and the dog days
were a hand, But because, along time before. there wore
prepared forthe lorly and great wedding of our new queen
‘many costly robes, a of black velvet, asen damask. gray
sik silver tes, sow white satin, even one studded with

