The following story is entirely imaginary ... | hope.

CHAPTER ONE

New York, Now York. Friday, early Soptomber, dusk.
Heading uptown on Madison, Sheets of cy ran washed the
‘pavement, heralding the onsiaught of autumn and the miserable
‘winter to come. The city was poised forts cruslest months, that
‘wight of the spit when strangers arm-wrestle for taxis, ndbody
has ime to hold a door, and you cherish every fleeting human
kindness.

Bring on the blizzards, the holiday madness. This winor| was
planning something ong overdue. To reat my daughter Amy, the
Madame Curie of Mer ninth grade, to areal vacation. Just us
‘We'd leave at Thanksgiving and stay gone through the Christmas
break, She got to live wth me three months a year, and
December was by God going to be one a the months. School?
‘Shed already skipped a year: maybe sha Wat a ila foo fast
‘rack or threen,

‘Since Joanna, my ex, had already ined up her own holiday
‘excursion (Amy the spy claimed it was with some divorced
‘Tishman VP, she had bothered inventing tha usual roadblocks,
Clear ealing, We'd apan the house down in St Cros and spend a
‘month geting reacquainted, Work on the tan and some
postgraduate snorkeling a strategic move while | sil enjoyed a
‘Small sliver o her alfenion before a certain “otaly tere”
‘skateboard vituoso finaly got around to noticing her. Only a
‘couple of jobs needed fishing, but they'd be wrapped up with
‘weeks fo spare.

“Thal night, in truth, had te moments of nostalgia. The
destination was Sotheby's auction house, a place whore Matthow
‘Walton was greeted by name atthe cashier's window. Home
away Irom home for obsessive collectors. leaned back

 ‘against the vin eat ofthe Checker, ting th rhythm ofthe
‘eelight halos glimmer past, and elected on al those hapoy
highs Fd made the rok with ioarna. She'd had no real interest in
my collecting hobby, Japanese samurai swords and armor, but
‘she was always a decent sport about Besides, she had her own,
passions. While | was agonizing overlong blades and short
blades, shed eneak off ana browee for something French and
nineteenth century and expensive. Facts, 'é usualy plan ahead
‘and have something of my own on the block just o pay for that
litle sketch or prin, she suddeniy had to have. Out of habit fa
‘even shipped up a couple of mistakes forthe auction ths evening
(ahand axe and alacquered-metal lace gua).

“Though tonights sale had only a few odd items in my
‘specialty the slim offerings actually suited the occasion tet the
‘evening open, time for he real agenda-gating things calling with
‘anew cient wi'd inexplicably handed me a job as simple as it
‘was strange

“The man, name of Matsuo Noda, had rung all the way fom
Japan Friday batore lat, inroduced himeal in generale, then
‘declared he had a pressing logal matter requiting both speed and
Confidentiality. Inguies had led him tome. Would Ihave time to
help him locate an office building to buy’ He claimed he was head
‘fa Kyoto consulting out that elle elt Nippon, In. and he
'was looking for something in mistown, severty-milion range

Honestly I couldn’ qute believe he was serious at fist. Why
this jo (ust alte legwork. really) or somebody he'd never even
met? | could swing it Sure, but now thal Japanese investors were
‘snapping up U.S. property right and ett who needed some ex
‘Texan turned New York lawyer knocking around? There was no
rational reason to engage a corporate altorney.

“Out of curiosity why arent you working through one ofthe
“Tokyo fms here in New York, say, Hiro Real Estate or KG Land?
‘Surely they could"

“Mr. Wallon," he interrupted smoothly but fm, “allow me to
‘say Ihave my reasons. May I remind you | stressed
‘onsen

“Merely asking” took a deep breath. The connection was,
dlstorted, a high ptched hum inthe background, as though he
\wasrit using commercial phone lines. “lf you want, | can look
lround and see whats onthe markt... and inthe meantime
how about sending along a prospectus, just fr the fle”

 "Assured." he said, “and | do look forward to working with
you.” tera few more polite nothings, he abruptly closed out the
eal

Peculiar. That wast how the Japanese road show usually
ddd business. From what Id seen, Tokyo invests very cautiously
‘and deberalely, sometimes “researching” a deal hal to death. {
‘momentary wondered iit wasit just one of th jokers trom my
‘ld partnership pling my lg.

He was real enough. A brochure arived by overnight at,
‘bound in leather. witha flowery covering letter. Two problems:
‘ost ofthe thing was in his mative tongue, and what | coud read
didnt tip his hand. From the looks ots puble disclosures,
Nippon Inc. was merely some kind of money manager for
Japanese investment banks; thad almost no assets ofits own.

‘All couldn listed were afew milion dollars lunch money for &
‘Japanese out, mostly cash parked in some shor-erm Euroyen
‘paper. Thal, and a head office in Kyoto, was the sum of, What's
more, Noda only worked with Japanese banks and trms. No
foreign clients.

‘So why did this man suddenly require space in Now Vork? An
‘entite building | hanasly could fgure i. On the other hand, ith
any luck the whole deal probably could be put together wih afew
phone calls

By way of introduction, let me say that | worked, technically.
‘asa straightlowvard attorney at law say Yechnicaty" because |
‘was, in fac, a freelance defensive back in the corporate takeover
‘game, which these days is anything but straight. You'd have fo go
‘Back tthe roaring twenties fo find ko many erative screw-jobs

‘Some people are drawn lo power: guess Im more attracted to
the idea of occasionally whiting it down to size. So when some
hotshot raider found a happy ile company whose breakup value
‘was worth more than the cutrent sock pies, then decided fo.
‘move in and grab it, loot the assets. and selloff he pieces-one of
the players at fo end up downfield was Matt Wallon. For reasons
that go long way back. | iked fo break up the running pattems of
the fast-buck artists I's a game where you win some and ose
‘some. The tik sto ry and beat the odds, and suppose fd had
my share of luck.

Give you a quick example. Back inthe spring, a midsize
cosmetics out called mein as part oftheir reinforcernens to
{ight an avaricious rape, better known as a hostile takeover, by
‘ne oftheir biggest competitors. Alte looking over the balance

 sheet and shares outstanding, | suggested thay divest a couple of
“npromising consumer dvsione-namely a"male fragrance” ine
that made you smell ike @ kd leaving the barbershop, and a
“feminine hygiene” product that could have been a patent
infangement on Lysol-and use the procaeds to buy back thet
‘own common shares. We also threw together a “poison pil” that
‘Would have practically had them owing anybody who acquires
‘more than twenty percent oftheir stock: Qur move scared hell out
‘lhe cling vires and reinforced my eeputation onthe Steel
(unduly harsh, | thought) a a give-no-quarter son of abitch.

“Another fact worth mentonng is that | worked without benefit
‘of areal offic: after seling off my piece of the law partnership, |
‘operated out of my place downtown, wit a telephone and a
couple of computers. Akindly ray-haired dynamo by the name of
Emma Epstein, wh hag a rent. controlled apartment down the
‘lack: dropped by alternoons and handled correspondence fing,
matrimonial advice, andthe occasional po! of medicinal chicken
‘soup. The only ther member of my stall was a shagay sheepdog
named Benjamin, who served as secunly chit, parodically
‘seeping the back garden forthe neighbors eat. That was i.

3 y8s one other item. Crucial, asit turned out. fd always
‘been a collector of something-once it was anque spurs, for
chrissake-but about ten years earlier started to getintarosted
in things Japanese and ended up going aitle overboard about
‘ld swords and such, Joanna's unscheduled departure managed
toburn out alot of my ciculs, and what had been merely an
‘obsession grew into something atl crazy. Fora year or so!
‘became, in my own mind a eas a sort of American ronin, a
wandering samurai

‘You see, the Japanese wariors had a code that said you
‘ought olive every mament in fll awareness of your own
mortality. When you adop this existential outlook, so they
Claimed, all egrets, emotions, complaints, ean be seen as an
indulgence. You're ready to mee! It head-on, to risk everything
‘ala moments notice. That's the only way you ever discover who
You really are, ands supposed to make you marvelously
otached,

"Almost enough to make you forget how your raven-haied,
biiliant, sexy mate packed i in one New Year's Eve twenty
months past... when you called late from the office, again
‘afer declaring thal thal was the goddam last straw an apparcnly
the only thing you could find worthy of undivided attention came

 printed on goddam computer paper and she was goddam sick of
{avhich she demonstrated the next day by slamming the door on
her way out

‘Add to which, she used my momentary disorientation to got
‘custody of Amy. So wile | wae batting corporate Goliath, let
her walk off with the only thing | would have given my ie for. The
‘more time went by. the more fwanted to kick mysel: Ax Kate (of
Walton, Halliday, and Katz-now minus the Walton) read the
‘custody agreeman the day ae signed i, sighed, glared over
his smudgy haltlenses, and announced tht this kind of
Unconditional surrender should only be signed on the decks of
battleships. What did he have, alaw parr or a tucking
sehlemiel?

He was right, forall he wrong reasons. Not ong ate. 1
cashed in my pice o the frm and went independent. Wis or lose,
itsbest to sox things out on your own. I was then forty-three, six
‘one, and weighed in at an evan one eighly. There were a few
lines on the face and several mare onthe peyche, but the sandy
hair was most intact, and I could stil swim a couple of mies
‘absolutely essential. Maybe thore was stl time for a new star.
Part of that therapy was going o be our tip.

Perhaps | should also add that'd had a bie rebound” fling,
for what itwas worth. The lady was Donna Austen, a name youl
recognize as longing fo thal repressiby cheertl

ersonalies? host on what Channel Eight kes to term its
Evening News. Shed called about a segment on the subject of
the cosmetics company takeover, then very much in the local
press, and Id sai ine. She ended up downtown, and soon
{herealer we became an item, She was the closest had toa
itiond, and at that it was mostly an on-again, off-again thing—
‘which terminated in an event reminiscent ofthe Hindenburg slat
tight In the atermath | went back to chatting with Amy every day
‘on the phone, putting together stock buyback packages, and
collecting Japanese swords

‘Anyway, while the cab waited for a igh, worn-out wipers
‘squeaking, tumbled around in my coat pocket and extracted the
‘meish, the business card, one side in English, the other
“Japanese, that had been included wih Noda’s letter. Held
personalized it witha handwritten nate on the sie with English
Drint Now, kept rack o! the ew Japanese investment heaves
in town-Nomura, Dawa, Nikko, Sumitomo-since you never Know
‘when a corporation might need some fast lquidty. They were

 starting to play hardball, and these days (wth al that cheap
‘money back home) they would underbd a nine-igure financing
deal before Drexel Bumham could spell "junk bond But Nippon,
Ine.? Never heard o the out.

‘Weil | thought. youl know the story sean enough. The deiver
had just hung aright on Fify-seventh and was headed east
toward York Avenue. 1d called that atemoon to lowe te reserve
‘none of my ots and had been told that because of some union
‘Squabble the preview would continue til ust before the sale, now
‘scheduled to kick of at eight hy. It wasn’ quite seven yet, so
‘we would have a least an hour to run through my list of
prospective buildings.

“As the cab pulled up next to the chaste glass awning, I took a
<deop breath, shoved a ten through the Plexiglas panel between
the Seas, and stopped out. While the ballered Checker lamented
remnant ofa vanishing specie) squealed into the dar
Lunbuttoned my overcoat and headed up the steps. A few grim
‘faced patrons milled here and there Inthe lobby. bul nobody
looked familar There was even a nev git atte desk bythe
‘airs, ash blond and tasteful smoked pearls, pure Bryn Mawe art
history class act, Sotheby's.

Itappeared that most ofthe Japanese crowd was already
‘upstairs, undoubtedly meditating on their bids with the meticulous
precision o the Orient | was headed up the wide, granite step
Iysolf when | decided to check out the downstairs one last tim.

Hold on, could be there's a possibilty. Waiting over bythe
oat check, thumbing the catalog, was a distinguished-looking
(by, roirment age, wearing alight, charcoal suit Ralan. Unlike
the usual Japanese businessmen, he clearly didnt assume he
had to dross like an undertaker and Keep a low profile. No,
probably just some Mitsubishi board member thinking to ively
his poriolio with afew objets ar.

‘Abruply be glanced up, smiled, and headed my way.
realized 1d been recognized

“Mr. Wallon, how good of you to come” Alera quick bow he
produced his card, aformalty that totally ignored the fact he'd
Slready sent me one. As convention require | held tin my lat
hand and studied it anew while | accepted his healy American
handshake. i's a pleasure to meet you. At last."

‘atlas?
 Het that puzzler pass and handed over a card of my own,
\which he held potely throughout our opening ritual, then
pocketed

Noda had a mane of siver hair sculptured around a lean, tan
{ace, and he looked tobe somewhere between sixty and seven
‘Though his dark eyes wore caught in a web of werkles that
‘bespoke his yeas, they had a sparkle of raw energy. He moved
‘with an easy poise, and the ial mpression was that of a man
‘eminently sel possessed. He had that sturdy, no-nonsense
‘assurance usually reserved for ane plots! you had to entust
‘Somebody with your wile, or youre savings, this man would be
your pek

‘Wel, my new cents @ mover, tld myst All the same,
‘accepted his hand witha vague twinge of misiving. What was i?
Maybe something about him was alle too precise, too,
caleulated

“Mr Wallon, permit me to inaduce my personal consutant
He laughed, a sight edge beneath the charm, and more wrinkles
‘sho outward rom the corners of his eyes. Talways seek her
approval of major acquistions, particulary those of the Heian
period her specialty" He turned with what seemed obvious pride
‘and gestured toward th tall Japanese woman standing behind
him. been so busy sing him up Fd completely falled to notice
het "must confess she i, in fact; my niece. | suppose thal
‘ages me." Another smile. "You may possibly be fami with her
professional name, so perhaps I should use that. May introduce
‘ica Mot”

‘Who? | stared a second before the face clicked into pace.
‘And the name. They both belonged toa well-known commentator
‘on Tokyo television. Only one sight problem: her "specially" had
nothing to do with ar

"Hajimemashif. How do you 6, Mr. Walton.” She bowed
formally and, | noticed with al the warmth olan iceberg. No
‘surprise knew her opinion af Americans. She did not bother
meeting my eye.

‘She looked just as | remembered her trom the tube. A
‘knockout Her hai was pulled back into a chignon, trating that,
classic oval face, and her age was anybody's guess, given the
ivory skin and granite cin. She was wearing a bulky something in
‘black and deep ocher by ane ofthe new Tokyo designers. For
‘some reason was drawn to her fingernail, long and bronze. The
parts, a minture of classic and avant-garde, didnot seem of a

 piace, th kind of detail you didnt notice onthe TV. But there was
‘Something more important than her looks.

Tbeen to Tokyo trom time (ote for various reasons, and
Idhneard a lot of stories about tis lady. Facts, you didi have to
bbe Japanese fo know that Akira Mort was easy Japan's most
listened: fo money analyst. You've probably seen her yourself in
‘snippets of that weekly chat show she had on NHK, which used to
{get picked up bythe networks here when they needed a quick
{hiny seconds an “Japan This Week" or such. Her ratings ha litle
todo wih the fact she's a looker. She was, tak had it, an
‘unofficial source for oficial government monetary policy. Akira
Mor always had a lead on exactly what was aloo, rom the Bank
‘of Japan tothe Minis of Finance, even betore the prime
miniser broke the news.

Miss "Mori" whoover the hell she was, had some very well
placed iriends. Tell you something else, she didn't go out of hor
‘way to find flattering things to say about how Uncle Sam handled
his bankbook hese days. Her appearance here made Noda's
‘unorthodox ofce plans even mare perplexing,

"Wie both appreciate your taking time trom your schedule to
‘meet with us.” He bowed again. "We've been looking forward to
having you join us atthe sale"

‘While Akira Mori appeared to busy herself with a catalog,
Noda and I gol things going with that standard formalty precoding
any serious Japanese professional contac: meaningless cha. I's
how they sel up their ningen kankol thee elationship with the
ther guy. and'i's also the way they fine-tune their hone, thee
{ut feeling about a situation. Any greenhor foreigner who skimps
‘on these vial niceties rune the risk o orpedong his whole deal

In esponse to my pro forma inquiries, Matsuo Noda declared
he liked New York, had even lived here fo% a while once, honestly
foundit less hectic than Tokyo, usually stayed those days atthe
LJapanase hotel down on Park but sometimes picked the Plaza
‘when he needed tobe closer to midtown, He adored La
Grengulle and thought La Tulipe overpraised. When | pressed
him, he declared his favorite Japanese place to dine was Nippon,
‘over in the East Fifties (maybe he meraly liked the name, but i
was my pick as wel,

‘Alter he had in tun solicited my own views on Sotheby's, a
couple othe galeries down Madison, and various North alan
‘alores, he suggested we goon upstairs and preview the lots.

 ‘All the while Miss Mori appeared to ignore us, standing there
lke a slalue of some Shinto goddess, excop forthe occasional
tug at her dark hai. Maybe she didn give a damn about this
‘obligatory small talk though it was old fashioned. Or possibly she
liked the idea of being the only one not to show a hand. And as
Noda le the way up toward the exhibition rooms, she tailed
Dehindlike a dutiful Japanese woman-while we, naturally,
Continued to tak of everything except, God forbid, why we were
there

Inthe frst room we were suddenly in my arena-samura
‘swords and battle gear.

“This your special interes, ist not, Mr. Welton? Noda
mild, then tured to admire the row of shining steel fh, three:
foot-long razors. now being watched over by ati of nervous
(uards. Sotheby's did't need some amateur Toshiro Mitune
‘ccidertaly carving up the clientele." understand you have a
notable collection yoursell”

‘What? Whal else did he know about me?

Easy, Walton Play the game. [knew what a Japanese would
‘expect in reply.

Mater of fact, Ve lucked onto a couple a items over the
years" Then he siandard deciaimers. My own painstaking
Callection was merely a grab bag of krickknacks, the tumbling
mistakes ofa dabble, et, ete

Noda monitored this Culturally corectblamoy with
satisfaction. "As it happens, Mr. Walton, Iwas in Nagoya lat year
‘when several of your pieces were on lean forthe show atthe
“Tokugawa Museum. tl recall erlain ones, partictlary that fine
{iteenth-century katana, attributed tothe Mizuno cian, Unusual
‘stool No date ar mark ofthe swordsmith, but a remarkable piece
allthe same" split-second pause. "Your reluctance fo pat with
itwas most understandable”

“This man had done his homework! Or maybe he'd been the
‘one who had tried to buy i. The steel was unusual, oo heavy on
Copper. Id even had a litle metallurgical testing done on it down
‘at Princeton, just fo prove that hunch. But twas no big
<del, merely an ody that had fallen my Way via an extate sale,
‘There was an anonymous inquiry shally after the exhibition
‘opened, with an insistent offer, but tuned it down,

Poker time "was honored, Your figure was mare than
onerous.

 He laughed-bulls-eye. | watched as he glanced back at Miss

‘maybe abit nervously. Then he returned is attention.
"Merely a small gesture forthe museum. felt t should be back in
Japanese hands." He continued, his voice now saber. "You do
understand?”

“Certainly” Ijust stared

"Good. I $0 Iwas Fight" He had paused to examine a large
monochrome screen. it was eighlaenth century and he inspected
itvath only mild interest, then moved on.

| was stil knocked over. Could that be why he'd retained me
‘as his US. legal counsel? Because of some damned antique
‘Sword? Okay, wae already geting the idea Matsuo Noda might
boa tile eccentc, but all the same

interesting,” He was pointing a along picture, pat ofa
seris locked in a wide lass case. "Honto.ni omashirol, desu ne?”

Miss Mor was already there. In voce scarcely above a
whisper she proceeded to give him a rundown of pros and cons. It
‘was he fist time Td noticed any enthusiasm out ol the woman all
night

| checked my catalogue. The piece was a Heian hand scrol,
‘said tobe "exceedingly rare." After alow moments Noda
motioned me over. "Perhaps you could give us your opinion. What
do you think?” He pointed daw. "Tha subject is intiguing. These
‘are ladies in wating forthe emperor, Fujiwara. Notice the delicate
felinement ofthe coloring, the matched fabrics, each enhancing
the other lke lowers in a bouquet. That was eight centuries ago,
Just betore the rise ofthe fst shogun the first ‘generalissima who
‘would rule in the empero's name."

‘When he said “shogun.” niece Mori shot him a quick
_admonitory glance. There was some kind of unmistakable
‘lectricity passing. Something lft unspoken.

“The Heian era ended with the great conlict between the
Heike and Genji clans that le tothe death of the ruling emperor
in 1185 and the loss ofthe imperial sword at soa "Next he said
‘something in guttural Japanese to Mor, obviously very intent, and
indleated ane corner othe painting, where the emperor sal Her
reply was quick and cur. Now, | ony know alte othe language
maybe a couple of cuts above Beri level, but Idd manage (0
pick up she wase't talking about the painting. Something to do.
‘withthe emperor himselt, though missed the api fire delivery.

In response to Noda's question | red to sound intaligent,
saying the ink coloring looked wal preserved, or some such

 auction house mumbo jumbo. twase't my thing reall, which the
man suraly knew. He seemed to know everything else about me.
‘Alter he listened politely, they switched back to Japanese and
finally settled on a bd. watched as she marked tin the
calalogue-low six igures.

‘Walton, | thought, youre dealing with a pair of heavyweights

By then Pd decided not to bother bisding on anything. There
wore 100 many curious twists, not o mention the buldng deal
‘Surely the ral had gone far enough the samurai negotiating
ploy of making your adversary be fst to reveal his game plan.

‘Wy not being up why we wore ther, just for he hell ft?

whan Idi, Noda betrayed aleting smile. But of course,
the building He made it sound tke some kind of vial
‘annoyance, a nuisance to get out ofthe way so we could al et
‘Back fo the serious work of admiring the pretty pictures,

Touche, | thought. Round one to Nod, on point," assume
youve had look atthe package of materials | messengered up
{o your hotel yestorday?™

‘AbcokerIiend had put together some listings for office
‘buildings around midiown-it tuned out the market was softening
{Touch due tothe lalest caneruction binge-and Td hoped that
‘maybe something would eaten Noda’ eye. Matter of fact, there
‘wore a couple of real bargains over near Sith.

“My people have examined itn dell. We would ke to move
forward on the twenty-sory building on Third Avenue.”

For a second though he was joking. Sure we'd tossed inthe
write-up, because it fit his profile, butt was a crazy ll-cash deal,
‘and they wanted riety milion, frm.

“Did you ead the terme an that one? t's all

“Ther i a vacant floor, i there not? Avalable immediately?

“Wel, yes, but"

“There maybe a few items to clariy-we would ike your legal
‘opinion concerning the leases othe existing lenante-but nothing
major. the sellers propared, thnk we could even goto
contract early next wook, while Im here. | would ke vary much to
lose as soon ae possible If some of my staf can meet with the
‘seller's attorneys over the weekend, perhaps we can staf work”

‘Over the weekend? No counter bana haggling? Now, you
lidrit have to be a brain surgeon to realize this was a fast-track
eal; Matsuo Noda was a man in a hurry. “Looks like you just may
have yourself apiece of property. ty and get hold of them in
the morring, ican, and stat the bal rling”

