won

Tempest and Sunshine

Chapter I

1 was the aftemoon of a bright October day. The old town
clock had ust tolled the hour of four, when the Lexington and
rankfort daly stage was heard rating over the stony pavement
fn the small town of V—, Kentucky. In afew moments the
four panting steeds were reined up before the door of The Eagle,
the principal hotel in the place. "Mine host” a middle-aged,
pleasan-looking man, came hustling out to inspect the neweom-
cs, and calculate how many would do justice t his beefsteaks,
strong coffe, sweet potatoes and com cakes, which were being
prepared in the kitchen by Aunt Esther.

This good dame divided her time between squeezing the
steaks, tuming the com cakes, kicking the dogs and administer-
ing various cuffs to sundry litte black urchins, who were on the
lookout to snatch abit of the “hoe cake” whenever they could
 way

2 Tempest and Sunshine

clude the angus eyes of Aunt Esther. When the rating of the
stage was heard, there ensued a general scrambling to ascertain
‘which would be first to see who had come. At length, by a series
of somersaults, helped on by Aunt Esther's brawny hand, the
kitchen was cleared and Aunt Esther was “monarch ofall she
surveyed.”

The passengers this aftemoon were few and far between, for
there was hut one inside and one om the box with the driver
The one inside alighted and ordered his baggage to be carried
into the hotel. The stranger was a young man, apparently about
twenty-five years of age. He was tll, well proportioned and
every way prepossessing in his appearance. AC leat the se of
Idlers inthe barroom thought so, for the moment he entered they
all directed their eyes and tobacco juice toward him!

By the time he had utered a dozen words, they had come to
the conclusion that he was a stranger inthe place and was from
the East. One of the men, a Mr. Edson, as, 0 use his vn
words, “mighty skeary of Northern folks.” and as soon as he
became convinced that the stranger wa from that way. he go up.
thinking 1 himself, "Some confounded Abolitionst, Fl warrant.
The sooner I go home and get my gang together the better ‘wil
be.” But on second thought he concluded that “his gang” was
sale, forthe preset atleast; so hed just sit down and hear what
his neighbor, Mr. Woodburn, was saying to the neweomer.

The Kentuckians are as famous asthe Yankees for inguisitive-
ness, but if they inquire into your history, they are equally ready
to give theirs to you, and you cannot feel as much annoyed by
the kind, confiding manner with which a Kentuckian will daw
you out, as by the cool, quizzing way with which a Yankee will
"guess" out your affais

(On the present occasion, Mr. Woodbur had conjectured the
young man’s business, and was anxious to know who he was
and, if possible, to render him assistance. It took but a short
time forthe stranger to tell that he was from the East, from New

 Chapter 3

York: that his name was Wilmot, and that he was in quest of
4 school; and in as short atime Mr. Woodburn had welcomed
young Wilmot to Kentucky, but expressed his regrets that he

4id not come sooner, for all the schools were engaged. "But

added he, “you bad better remain around here awhile and get
cquainted, and then there will be no doubt of your eventually
setting situation. Meantime, as you are a stranger here, you are
‘welcome to make my house your home.

‘Such kindness from an entire stranger was unlooked for by
Wilmot, He knew ot what to make of tit was so differen from
the cold, money-making men ofthe North. He wied to stammer
‘out his thanks, when Mr. Edson interrupted him by nudging Mr.
‘Woodburn and saying: "Don't you mind old Middleton. ‘He's
ben tarn’ round after a Yankee teacher these sx weeks. Ieckon
this chapll suit.

‘Me, Woodburn hesitated. He did not ike to send Mr, Wilmot
tosuch place as Mr. Middleton's, for though Mr. Middleton was
very kind man, he was very rough and uncouth in bis manner
and thought his money much bette applied when at interest than (03)
‘when employed to make his house and family more comfortable

A length Mr. Woodburn replied: “True, Idd not think of Mr
‘Midleton, but I hardly like to senda stranger there. However,
‘Mr. Wilmot, you must not judge all Kentuckians by him, for
‘hough he is very hospitable to strangers, he is extremely rough.

‘Me, Wilmot thanked them for their information and sid he
‘thought he would go to Mr. Middleton's that night.

“Lord knows how youll gt there,” said Mr. Edson

“Why, is it far” asked Wilmot

“Not very far." said Mr. Edson, "litle better than four miles,
but a mighty mean read at any ime and a heap worse since the
rains. For a spell you can get on right smart, but then, again,
youll goin corslush!™

‘Me. Wilmot smiled, but said he “thought he would try the read
iff Mr Edson would give him the direction.”
 tw

4 Tempest and Sunshine

Then followed a host of directions, of which the most promi
neat to Wilmot were, that “about to miles from the house is
an old hemp factory, full of niggers, singing ike all fury: then
comes a piece of woods, in the middle of which isa gate on
the left hand; open that gate and follow the road straight till
{you come to the mightiest, mesn-looking house you ever seen, I
reckon: one chimley tumbled down, and fothe trying to. That
is Middleton’

Here Mr. Woodbum said, "That asthe road was so bad, and
it was getting late, Mr. Wilmot had better stay at his house that
night and the nextday they would send him to Middleton's.”

efore Mr. Wilmot had time to reply, Mr. Edson called
out, "Halloo! Justin ime, Wilmot!” Then rushing tothe door
he sercamed, "Ho! Jim Crow, you jackanapes, what you ridin’
Prince full jump down the pike for? Say, you seapegrace, come
up here"

(Mr. Wilmot looked from the window and saw a fine looking
black boy of about siteen years of age riding a beautiful horse
at full speed through the stret. He readily divined thatthe boy
‘was the property of Mr. Edson, and as he had brought trom
home a litle abolitionism safely packed away. he expected to
see a few cufls dealt out t the young Alican. But when the
young hopeful, atthe command of his master, wheeled his horse
‘up to the door, gave a flourish with his rimless old hat and a
Jou whistle with his pouting lips, Me. Wilmot observed that his
raster gave the bystanders a knowing wink, as much a to st.
sn he smart?” Then tuning to the boy he sud, "How now.
you Jim, what ae you here for, iding Prince to death?”

‘begs marster’s pardon bery much,” said the nero, "but you
see how I done toted all the tater you told me, and missis she
‘vise me to ride Prince a letle, ‘case he's gettin’ oneasy like when
Miss Carne rides him,

‘Likely story.” said Mr. Edson; "but for once you ar inthe
‘way when I want you. You know where Mr. Midleton lives”

 Chapter s

“Yes, mart,

“Wel, this young man wants to go there. Nov jump down
quick and help him on, Do you hear”

"Yes, marse,” sid the negro, and ina moment he was on the
ground, holding the sirup for Me. Wilmot to mount.

‘Wilmot hesitated for two causes. The first was, he was not 8
_g00d horseman and didnot like to attempt mounting the sprited
animal before so many prs of eyes. He looked wistfully atthe
fhrse block, but did not dare propose having the horse led up to
it. The second reason was he did not know whether to accept or
decline the kindness of Mr. Edson: but that man reassured him
by sayin:

“Come! What are you waiting for? Jump up. fda heap rather
‘Jim would go with you than ride Prince to death

Here Mr. Woodburn spoke. He knew that New York people
‘were, comparatively speaking, inferioe rides, and he conjectured
‘why Mr. Wilmot hesitated; soe sid:

“Here Jim, lad the horse up to the block forthe gentleman":
‘hen turing othe bystanders, said, as if apologizing for Wilmot
"You know itis so thickly settled in New York that they do not
ride as much as we do, and probably the young man has always
bee a schoo,

This was satisfactory to the white portion of the audience, but
rot to the group of blacks, who were assembled atthe corner
of the house. ‘They thought ita shame not to be a good rider
and when they saw the awkward manner in which Mr. Wilmot
finally mounted the horse and the ludicrous face of Jim Crow as
fhe sprang up behind him. they were as they afterward told Aunt
Esther, "dreffully tickled and would have larfed, sartin if they
hadnt knowed master would have slapped their jaws

“And sarved you right.” was the rejoinder of Aunt Esther.

‘But to return to Mr. Edson. As soon as Mr. Wilmot, Jim and
Prince had disappeared he felt a retum of his fears concerning
the “confounded Aboltionist." Thought he, “What a fool I was

eckon I does,

 6 Tempest and Sunshine

to let Prince and Jim Crow, too, go off with that ar’ chap!

Thars Prince, worth a hundred and fifty, and Jim, at the least
calculation, fetch eight hundred. Well, anyway, they cant get
far om that dit road, soi im isnt home by nine, I'l go after ‘em,
thats so.” Having settled the mater ths satisfactorily i his on
tind, he eilled for bis horse and started for home.

“Meantime Mr. Wilmot was slowly wending his way towant
Mr. Middleton's. It took but a short time for him to ascertain
‘hat the road was fully equal to the description given a it by Me.
Bdson. At times he could searcely keep hs head, and he felt
conscious, to, that he black machine behind bim was inwardly
convulsed with laughter at his awkward attempts t0 guide the
horse inthe best par ofthe road. At length he ventured a remark:

“Jim, is this animal ugly”

Ugly! Lor bless you, marster, is you Blind? As handsome a
crceturas tha isin the country!

‘Mr. Wilmot understood that he ad sed the word ugly in its
wrong sense, so he said

ido not mean to ask if the horse is illlooking, but is he
shitish

Wf marster means by that wille throw him off, Idontthink he
will as long as fm on him, but sometimes he isa letle contrary
ike. Reckon marstr ain't much used to ridin’

Ly this time they had reached the gate spoken of by Mr.
Eason, To Mr, Wilmot’s great surprise the horse walked tip o it
and tied to open it with his mouth! Mr. Wilmot was so much
amused that he would not sulfer Jim to get down and open the
gate, as he wished tose if the horse could doit

‘Oh, yes, marser hel do it easy." said the negro: and sure
enough, ina moment the well-trained animal lite the latch and
pushed open the gate! But it was a rickety old thing and before
Prince had got fairly through it tumbled down, hitting his heels
and causing him to jump sideways, so as to leave Mr. Wilmot
Fiding the gate and Jim Crow in quict possession of the saddle!

 Chapter 7

With a great effor im forced down his desi to scream and
merely showed twenty-eight very large, white teth

‘Springing from the horse be offered to assist Mr. Wilmot to
mount again, but be had no inclination to do s0, He prefered
walking the rest of the way. he said, and as he could now easily
find the house, Jim could return home, This was not what Jim
‘wanted, He had antiipated a nice time in relating bis adventures
{fo Mr. Middleton's negroes, butas Me. Wilmot slipped a quarter 04)
into his hand, he felt consoled for the loss of his "yam"; 50
‘mounting Prince again, he gave his old palm lea thre flourishes
round his head, and with aloud whoop, started the horse with
a tremendous speed down the road and was soon out of sight,
leaving Mr. Wilmot to find his way alone through the wood.
This he found no difficulty in doing, for he soon came in sight of
sthouse, which he readily took for Mr. Middleton’

was large, old-fashioned stone building, with one chimney
fallen down, as Mr. Edson had sai, and its companion looked
likely to follow suit atthe frst high wind. The windows of the
upper story were two-thirds of them destitute of glass, but its
place was supplied by shingles, which kept the cold out if they
tid not let the light in, Scattered about the yard, which was very
large, were com cribs, hay racks, pig troughs, carts, wagons,
old plows, horses, mules, cows, hens, chickens turkeys, geese,
negroes, and dogs, the later of which rushed ferociously at Mr
Wilmot, who was about to beat retreat from so uninviting
quarters, when one of the negroes called out, “Ho, marster, dont
be feared, case Il hold Tiger” So Wilmot advanced with some
misgivings toward the negro and dog.

He asked the negro if hs master were at home.

“No, sar, master’s done gone away. but Miss Nancy, she's at
home Jst walk right i thar, whar you see the pile of stds in
the enty

‘Accordingly, Mr. Wilmot “walked in where the pile of sad-
les were" and knocked at aside door. It was opened by a very
 wn

8 Tempest and Sunshine

handsome young gitl, who politely asked the stranger to enter.
He did so and found within a mild-looking, middle-aged lady.
‘whose dark eyes and har showed her at once tobe the mother of
the young lady who fad opened the door for him.

Mrs. Middleton for she it was, arose, and offering her hand
to the stranger, asked him tobe seated in the large stufed chair
‘which stood before the cheerful blazing fire. Ina few moments
he had introduced himself, old his busines and inquired for Me.
Midaleton

‘My husband i absent” sad Mrs. Middleton, “but he willbe
at home tonight and we shall be glad to have you remain with us
tll tomorrow a east. and as much longer as you like, for I think
(Mr. Middleton will be glad to asist you in getting a schoo

‘Mr. Wilmot accepted the invitation and then looked round the
oom to see if the interior of the house coresponded with the
exterior, It didnot, fr the room, though large, was very comfort-
able. The loor was covered with a bright-colored home-made
carpet. In one corner stood a bed, the counterpane of which was
35 white as snow, and the curtains of the windows were of the
same hue. In another comer was a small bookcase, well filled
with books and on a stand near window were several howe
plants

He concluded thatthe books and the plants were the property
of the young lady, whom Mrs. Middleton introduced to him as
her eldest daughter Julia, She was an intelligen-looking git
and Mr. Wilmot instantly felt interested in her, but when he
attempted to converse with her, she tole quietly out of the room,
leaving her mother to entertain the visitor.

Atlas supper was brought in by old Aunt Judy, who courtesied
s0 low to the "young marste.” that she upset the coffe pot, the
contents of which fell upon a spaniel, which lay before the fire
The outers of the dog brought Mis Julia fom the kitchen, and
this time she was accompanied by her younger sister, Fanny. who
together with Julia and Aunt Judy, lamented over the wounded

 Chapter 9

snimal

“did't go t doit, satin, Miss July." said Aunt Judy, "Lor
knows Id

“Who said you dd, you black thing. you?” said Julia, who in
her grief for her favorite, and her anger at Aunt Judy, forgot the
stranger, and her bushiulnes, too. “You were careless, know
you were,” she continued, “or you never could have tipped the
‘otfee over inthis manner.

“Never mind, sister” said Fanny, “never mind: of course,
‘Aunt Judy dit mean to doit, for she likes Dido as well as we
to,

“Lor bless Miss Fanny's sweet fae, tht I do like Dido," said
Aunt Judy.

“Yes, that you do." repeated Julia mockingly, “just as though
ys could ike anything.”

Here Mrs. Middleton interposed and ondered Julia and Fanny
to take their seats atthe table, while Judy cleared away all races
ofthe disaster. ula complied with an il-grace, muttering some-
thing about “the hateful negroes." while Fanny obeyed realy,
and laughingly made some remark to Mr. Wilmot about their
‘making so much ado over a dog, “but.” std she, “we ar silly
irl and of course do silly things. Probably we shall do beter
‘when we get ol like you—no, like mother, I mean.

Here she stopped, bushing deeply athaving called Mr. Wilmot
old, when infact she thought him quite young. and very hand- (08)
some—in short, just the thing” She thought to herself, “There,
{ve done it now! Julia and I have both intoduced ourselves 0
him in a prety light, but it’s just like me—however, Il not say
nother word tonight!

The litle incident ofthe coffee pot gave Me. Wilmot some-
thing of an insight into the character and disposition ofthe two
girls. And surely nothing could have been more unlike than
their personal appearance, as they’ sat side By side atthe supper
table. Julia was about seventeen years of age and was called
 10 Tempest and Sunshine

very handsome, fo there was something peculiarly fascinating
inthe ever-varying expression of her large black eyes. She was
‘8 brunette, bat there as on her check so rch and changeable &
color that one forgo in looking athe, whether she were datk or
ight. Her disposition was something like her complexion —dark
and variable. Her father was & native of South Carolina, and
from him she inherited a quick, passionate temper. At times she
was as gentle asa lamb, but when anything occured to trouble
her all her Southem blood boiled up. and she was as Fanny said,
always ready to fire up at a moment's warning.” Mr. Midleton
called her “Tempest” while to Fanny he gave the pet name of|
Sunshine," and truly compared with her sister, Fanny's presence
inthe house was like a ray of sunshine.

She was two years younger than Julia and entirely diferent
from her, both i looks and disposition. Her face was very pale
and her bright golden hair fell in soft curls around her neck and
shoulders, giving her something the appearance of a fairy. Her
eyes were very large and very dark blue, and ever mirored forth
the felings of her soul

By the servants Julia was feared and dreaded; but Fanny was
favorite with ll. Not aman, woman or child on the plantation
but was ready to do anything for “darling Miss Fanny.” And
they thought, too, every one must love her as well as they did,
for they said "she showed by her face that she was an angel”
This was the opinion of the blacks, and it was also the partially
formed opinion of Mr. Wilmot betore he finished his supper: and
yet he could aot help thinking there was something wondrously
tractive in the glance of Julia's large, dark eyes

After supper he tried to engage the girls in conversation in
order to ascertain which had the better mind. He found Fanny
most ready to converse. She had forgotten her resolution not
to talk, and before the evening was half spent seemed perfectly
well acquainted with him. She had! discovered that his name was
Richard, that he had a sister Kate, who called. im Dick, that

 Chapter 1

hhe was as yet possessor of his own heart, but was in danger of|
losing it! The compliment Fanny very generously gave to her
sister Iulia, because she served that Me. Wilmot’s eyes were
‘often directed toward the comer where the dark beauty sat silent
and immovable,

Julia had taken but little part in the conversation and Mr.
Wilmot efforts to “drawer out” had proved ineffectual. She
felt piqued that Fanny should engross so much atention and
resolved on revenge; so she determined to show Mr. Wilmot that
she could talk but not upon such silly subjects as pleased Fanny
Accordingly, when books were mentioned, she seemed suddenly
aroused int life. She was really very intelligent anda very good
scholar, She had a great taste for reading, and what books she
could not prevail on her father to buy. she would borrow, so she
had a tolerably good knowledge ofall he standard works. Mr.
Wilmot was surprised and pleased to find her so well informed
and inthe spirited conversation which followed poor Fanny was
«ast entirely into the background

Fanny, however atributed itt her sister's superior knowl-
edge of Latin, and inwardly "thanked her stars" that she knew
‘nothing of that language further than the verb Amo, to love. The
practical part ofthat ver she understood, even if she didnot its
conjugation. She sat quietly listening to Mr. Wilmot and her
sister, but her cogitations were far different from what Julia's had
been,

anny was building catles—in all of which Mr. Wilmot and
Julia were the hero and heroine, She gazed admisingly at her
sister, whose face grew handsomer each moment as she became
‘more animated, and she thought, "What a nice-looking couple
Julia and Mr, Wilmot would make! And they would be so happy.
‘oo—that sit sister didnt get angry, and lam sure she wouldnt
‘with Mr. Wilmot. Then they would havea nicer house than this
‘old shel, and perhaps they would lt me live with them!

Here her reverie was interrupted by Mr. Wilmot, who asked

