January 1.

‘Redeeming the time” (Eph. v.16).

Two litle words are found in the Greck version here. They
are translated “ton kairon” in the revised version, “Buying up
for yourselves the opportunity." The two words fon kairon mean,
literally. the opportunity.

They do not refer to time in general, but ta special point
of time, a juncture a ersis, a moment full of possibilities and
quickly passing by. which we must seize and make the best of
before it as passed away.

is intimated that there are not many such moments of
‘opportunity, because the days are evi; like a barren desert, in
Which, here and there, you find a lower, pluck it while you
can; like a business opportunity which comes a few times in a
lifetime: buy it up while you have the chance. Be spiritually
alert; be not unwise, but understanding what the will of God is

‘Walk circumspecly, not as fools, but as wise, buying up for
yourselves the opportnity.

Sometimes its a moment of time wo be saved: sometimes 2
soul to be led to Christ; sometimes it isan eceasion for love:
sometimes for patience: sometimes for victory over temptation
and sin, Let ws redeem it

twos
 ts

January 2.

“Lill cause you to wal in My statutes” (Eze. xxxvi. 27),

The highest spiritual condition is one where life is spontancous
and flows without effort lke the deep floods of Ezekiel’ river.
where the struggles ofthe swimmer ceased, and he was borne by
the current’ resistiess force.

‘So Gad leads us into spiritual conditions and habits which
become the spontaneous impulses of our being, and we live and
‘ove inthe fulness ofthe divine life.

‘Butthese spiritual habits are not the outcome of some transitory
impulse, but are often slowly acquired and established. They
begin, ike every true habit, in a definite act of will and they are
confirmed by the repetition of that act uni it becomes 2 habit
The first stages always involve effort and choice, We have to
take a stand and hold it steadily, and after we have done so a
certain time, it becomes second nature, and caries us by its own
force,

The Holy Spirit is willing to form such habitsinevery direction
of our Christian life, and if we will but obey Him in the first
steppings of faith, we will soon become established in the atitude
of obedience. and duty willbe delight

 January 3.

‘Watch and pray" (Matt xxvi 41).

‘We need to watch for prayers as well as fr the answers to our
prayers. It needs as much wisdom to pray rightly asi does faith
to receive the answers to ou prayers.

‘We meta friend the other day. who had been in years of
darkness because God had failed to answer certain prayers, and
the reslt had heen a state bordering on infidelity

‘A very few moments were sufficient to convince this fiend
that these prayers had been entirely unauthorized, and that God
had never promised to answer such prayers, and they were for
things which this friend should have accomplished himself, in
the exercise of ordinary wisdom.

The result was deliverance froma cloud of unbelief which was
almost wrecking a Christian life. There are some things about
‘which we do nt ned to pray, as much a to take the light which
God has already given,

‘Many persons are asking God to give them peculiar signs,
tokens and supernatural intimations of His wil. Our business is
to use the light He has given, and then He will give whatever
more we need.
 January 4.

“Blessed isthe man that walketh not” (Psi).

Three things are notable about ths man:

1. His company. “He walketh not in the counsel of the
‘ungodly, nor standeth inthe way of sinners, nor sitet inthe seat
ofthe scomful.

2. His reading and thinking. “His delight isin the law of the
[Lord and in His lw doth he meditate day and night.

5. His fruitfulness, “And he shall be ikea tee planted by the
rivets of water, that bringeth forth his frit in his season; his leaf
also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doc shall prosper.

The river isthe Holy Ghost the planting, the deep, abiding
ife in which, not occasionally, bat habitually. we absorb the
Holy Spirit, and the fruit is not occasional, but continual, and
appropriate to cach changing season,

His life is also prosperous, and his spirit fresh, like the
unfading leaf. Such a life must be happy. Indeed, happiness is
‘8 matter of spttual conditions. Put a sunbeam in a cellar and it
ius be bright, Puta nightingale inthe darkest midnight, and it
ust sing

 January 5.

‘know im that he will do the lw" (Gen. xii. 19).

God wants people that He ean depend upon, He could say of
Abraham,“ know bim, that the Lord may bring upon Abraham
all that He ath spoken” God can be depended upon; He wants
us to be just as decided, as reliable, as sable. This is just what
faith means. God is looking for men on whom He ean put the
‘weight of all His love, and power, and faithful promises. When
God finds such a soul there is nothing He will not do for him,
Goals engines are strong enough to draw any weight we attach
to them. Unfortunately the cable which we fasten to the engine
is often to0 weak to hold the weight of our prayer, therefore
God is drilling us, disciplining us, and taining us to stability and
certainty in the life of faith Let us leam our lessons, and let us
stand fast

God as His best things forthe few
‘Who dare to stand the test,

God has his second choice for those
‘Who will not have His best.

Give me, © Lord, Thy highest choice,
Let others take the rest

Their good things have no charm for me,
For have got Thy best

tora
 January 6.

“The body i not one member, but many" (Cor. xii 14),

We have a friend who has a phonograph for his
correspondence, It consists of two parts. One is a simple
and wonderful apparatus, whose sensitive cylinders receive the
tones and then give them out again, word for word, through the
hearing tube. The other partis a common litle box that stands
tnd the table, and does nothing but supply the power through
connecting wires.

Now, the little box might insist upon being the phonograph,
and doing the taking: but it shoul, it would not only wast its
town life but destroy the life of its parne.

Its sole busines is to supply power tothe phonograph, while
the ater isto da the talking. So some of ws are called tobe voices
to speak for God to our fellow-men others are forces to sustain
them, by our holy sympathy and silent prayer. (Some of us are
litle dynamos under the table, while others are phonograph that
speak aloud the messages of heaven.)

Let each of ws be trie to our God-given ministry, and when the
day comes our work wil be weighed and the rewards distributed.
 January 7.

‘Now unto Him that is able to keep you from stumbling” Jude
24)

This is a most precious promise, ‘The revised translation is
both accurate and suggestive. Its not merely from falling that
“He wants to keep us, but from even the slightest stumbling.

‘We ae told of Abraham that he staggered not atthe promise.
God wants us to walk so steadily that there will not even be a
quiver in the line of His regiments as they face the foe. It is
the litle stumblings of lite that most discourage and hinder us,
and most ofthese stumblings are over trifles. Satan would mach
rather knock us down with feather than with an Aemstong gun
kis much more to is honor and keen delight to defeat a child of|
Godby some flimsy trifle than by some great temptation.

‘Beloved, let us watch, in these days, against the orange peels
‘hat ip us on our pathway. the itl foxes that destroy the vines,
and the dea lies that mar, sometimes, whole vessel of precious
ointment. “Trifles make perfection." and as we get farther on,
in our Christian life, God will hold us much more closely 19
‘obedience in things that seem insignificant,

 vais

January 8.

“Its be not afraid” (Mark vi. $0)

‘Someone tells ofa litle child with some big story of sorrow
upon is litle heat, ying to its mother's arms for comfort. and
intending to tll her the story of its trouble; but as that mother
resis it to her bosom and pours out her love, it soon becomes
0 occupied with her and the sweetness of er affection tht it
forgets to tll its story and ina litle while even the memory of
the trouble is forgotten. It has ust been loved away, and she has
taken its place inthe heart of the litle one.

This isthe way God comforts us Himself. “It is 1, be not
affid” is His reassuring word. The circumstances are not
altered, but He Himself comes in ther place. and satisfies every
need of our being, and we frgetall things in His sweet presence,
as He becomes our all inal

1am breathing out my sorrow
(On Thy kind and loving breast;
Breathing in Thy joy and comfoet,
Breathing in Tay peace and rst

1 am breathing out my longings
In Thy listening, loving ea:

1am breathing in Ty answer,
Sling every doubt and fea.

 January 9.

‘Not as I will but as Thou wilt" (Matt xxi. 39)
o will and do of His good pleasure" (Phil i. 13).

There ae two altitudes in which ove will should be given to
God,

First, We should have the surrendered will, This is where
‘we must all begin, by yielding up to God our natural wil, and
having Him possess it

‘But next, He wants us to have the vitorious wi
He receives our will in honest surrender, He wants to put His will
{nto it and make it stronger than ever for Him. tis henceforth no
longer our will, but His will. And having yielded to His choice
and placed ise under His direction, He wants to put into it ll
the suength and intensity of His own great will and make us
positive, forceful, victorious and unmovable, even as Himself

‘Not My will, but Thine be done." That is the first step. “Father,
1 will tht they whom Thou hast given Me, be with Me.” That
is the second atitude. Both are divine: both are right; both are
necessary to our righ living and successul working for God

As soon as

1018
 wn

January 10.

“Charity doth not behave itself unseemly” (. Co. si. 5).

Inthe dress of a Hindu woman, her graceful robe is fastened
upon her person entirely by means ofa single knot. ‘The long
strip of cloth is wound around her person so as to fall in gracefal
folds like a made garment, and the end is fastened by a litle
knot, and the whole thing hangs by that singe fastening. If that
‘were loosed the robe would fll. And so i the sista! lif, our
habits of grace are likened unto garments; and itis also trae that
the garment of love, which isthe Beautiful adoring ofthe child
of God, is entirely fastened by litle nos

1f you will read with care the thincenth chapter of 1
Corinthians, you will find that most of the qualities of love
ae purely negative. "Love envieth not, love vaunteth not itself,
js not puffed up, dat not behave herself rudely, seeketh not her
‘wn, isnot provoked, thinketh na evi.” Here are “nor” enough
to hold on our spiritual wardrobe. Here are reasons enough to
explain the failure of so many, and the reason why they walk
naked. or with tent garments, and others sce their shame. Let us
look aftr the nts

 January 11.

‘Hold fas sil I come” (Rev. i. 25).

The other day we asked a Hebrew fiend how it was that
his countrymen were so successful in acquiring wealth. “Ah,
said he, “we do not make more money than other people, but
wwe keep more.” Beloved, lt us look out this day for spiritual
pickpockets and spiritual leakage. Let us “lose nothing of what
we have wrought, but receive a fll reward"; and, as each day
comes and goes, let us put away in the savings bank of eternity
its treasures of grace and victory, and so be conscious from day
to day that something real and everlasting is being added to our
tema fortune.

‘may be but a litle, but if we only economize all that God
sives us, and pass it on to His keeping, when the close shall ome
‘we shall be amazed to see how much the accumulated treasures
fof & well spent life have laid up om high, and how much more
He has added t0 them by His glorious investment of the life
‘committed to His keeping.

‘Oh, how the days are telling! Ob, how precious these golden
hours will soem sometime! God help us to make the most of
them now.

